Case 5 is where R requests , agrees to receive or accepts a financial or other advantage as a reward for the improper performance ( whether by R or another person ) of a relevant function or activity .
does not affect the validity , continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible subordinate legislation if ( disregarding any possibility of revocation ) primary legislation prevents removal of the incompatibility .
to another person at F 's request or with F 's assent or acquiescence , and
where there are further steps consequent on any such application , explaining those steps or referring to the provisions of a document explaining them which is reasonably accessible to the employee .
For the purposes of subsection ( 5 ) above , the “ determination date ” for a prescribed process is— ( a ) in the case of a process for which an authorisation is granted , the date on which the enforcing authority grants it , whether in pursuance of the application or , on an appeal , of a direction to grant it ; ( b ) in the case of a process for which an authorisation is refused , the date of the refusal or , on an appeal , of the affirmation of the refusal .
impose , for such period as it considers appropriate , such limitations or other restrictions in relation to the carrying on of a regulated activity by the person as it considers appropriate .
and may give advice to any person as to any of those matters .
a copy of the company 's articles , or the resolution or agreement in question , as amended .
The Parliament then in existence dissolves at the beginning of the 17th working day before the polling day for the next parliamentary general election as determined under section 1 or appointed under section 2(7 ) .
are included or referred to in an instalment of a statement given under section 1 , or
Where a company that is a charity purports to transfer or grant an interest in property , the fact that ( as the case may be)—
The IPSA must— ( a ) prepare guidance for members of the House of Commons about making claims under the MPs ' allowances scheme ; ( b ) review the guidance regularly and revise it as appropriate ; ( c ) publish the guidance in a way the IPSA considers appropriate ; ( d ) provide to any member on request such further advice about making claims as the IPSA considers appropriate .
to obtain or retain an advantage in the conduct of business for C.
The constitution of the scheme manager must provide for it to have— ( a ) a chairman ; ( aa ) a chief executive ( who is to be the accounting officer ) ; and ( b ) a board ( which must include the chairman and chief executive ) whose members are the scheme manager ’s directors .
to impose a penalty under section 206 ( whether or not of the amount roposed ) , or
in relation to a matter particulars of which are included or referred to in a statement given under section 1 otherwise than in instalments , the material date is the date to which the statement relates ,
the buyer will enjoy quiet possession of the goods except so far as it may be disturbed by the owner or other person entitled to the benefit of any charge or encumbrance so disclosed or known .
by adding or varying conditions or safeguards , and
Subsection ( 5 ) makes provision about the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences or related security measures that is not carried out under the control of official authority .
Where the Commissioner decides that a public authority— ( a ) has failed to communicate information , or to provide confirmation or denial , in a case where it is required to do so by section 1(1 ) , or ( b ) has failed to comply with any of the requirements of sections 11 and 17 , the decision notice must specify the steps which must be taken by the authority for complying with that requirement and the period within which they must be taken .
A discriminates against a disabled person if A fails to comply with that duty in relation to that person .
When the scheme ( or revision ) is laid , the IPSA must publish in a way it considers appropriate— ( a ) the scheme ( or revision ) , and ( b ) a statement of its reasons for adopting that scheme ( or making that revision ) .
For the purposes of this section , the day on which a woman gives birth is the day on which—
whenever made or given , so far as , in the opinion of the court or tribunal , it is relevant to the proceedings in which that question has arisen .
The third requirement is a requirement , where a disabled person would , but for the provision of an auxiliary aid , be put at a substantial disadvantage in relation to a relevant matter in comparison with persons who are not disabled , to take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to provide the auxiliary aid .
altering it , or
in the case of a decision which specifies to whom it is addressed , it has been notified to that person before exit day , and
review the guidance regularly and revise it as appropriate ;
Subsection ( 4)(d)(iii ) does not apply to an employee of a body or authority if— ( a ) the employee ’s pension rights depend on the terms of a pension scheme established under any provision contained in or having effect under any Act , and ( b ) any such provision requires the body or authority to give to a new employee information concerning the employee ’s pension rights or the determination of questions affecting those rights .
There may be a contract of sale between one part owner and another .
But that is subject to— ( a ) the following provisions of this section , and ( b ) section 4B.
The scheme manager ” means the body corporate established by the Financial Services Authority under this section as originally enacted .
the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so .
a school is “ causing concern ” if it is eligible for intervention within the meaning of Part 4 of EIA 2006 .
provide to any member on request such further advice about making claims as the IPSA considers appropriate .
The provisions of a company 's constitution bind the company and its members to the same extent as if there were covenants on the part of the company and of each member to observe those provisions .
Part 9B ( ring - fencing )
by another person who in the circumstances owes a duty of confidentiality under an enactment or rule of law .
such longer period as the court or tribunal considers equitable having regard to all the circumstances ,
but paragraph ( a ) does not affect the use of the other language versions of that legislation for the purposes of interpreting it .
For the purpose of facilitating the performance by the Public Record Office , the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland and other public authorities of their functions under this Act in relation to records which are public records for the purposes of the Public Records Act 1958 or the Public Records Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1923 , the code may also include guidance as to—
In subsection ( 2 ) above “ necessaries ” means goods suitable to the condition in life of the minor or other person concerned and to his actual requirements at the time of the sale and delivery .
The statement may ( subject to section 2(4 ) ) be given in instalments and ( whether or not given in instalments ) shall be given not later than two months after the beginning of the employment .
any terms and conditions relating to his return to the United Kingdom .
This subsection applies if the person is reckless as to whether the act will do any of the things mentioned in paragraphs ( a ) to ( d ) to ( c ) of subsection ( 2 ) above .
depends in each case on the construction of the contract ; and a stipulation may be a condition , though called a warranty in the contract .
a member of the House of Commons , or
The governing body of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation may make an application under this section only with the consent of— ( a ) the trustees of the school , and ( b ) the person or persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed .
The governing body of a maintained school in England may apply to the Secretary of State for an Academy order to be made in respect of the school .
because of the pregnancy , or
whether the accused was in the home country concerned at the time of any such act or event .
Regulations under subsection ( 4 ) may in particular include provision— ( a ) requiring the local authority to inform the proprietor of the determinations under subsection ( 2 ) ; ( b ) authorising the proprietor to apply to the Secretary of State for a review of those determinations ; ( c ) about the procedure for , and the Secretary of State 's powers on , any such review ; ( d ) about the effect of any such review on the amount required to be paid by the local authority to the proprietor ( including provision requiring repayment of sums by the proprietor or the payment of additional sums by the local authority ) ; ( e ) about the time limits for doing anything required or permitted to be done under this section or the regulations .
The Compliance Officer must notify the IPSA of the Tribunal 's decision ( and the result of any further appeal ) .
It shall be the duty of any person who designs , manufactures , imports or supplies any article for use at work or any article of fairground equipment—
If the protected characteristic is sex— ( a ) less favourable treatment of a woman includes less favourable treatment of her because she is breast - feeding ; ( b ) in a case where B is a man , no account is to be taken of special treatment afforded to a woman in connection with pregnancy or childbirth .
Sections 39 and 40 ( company 's capacity and power of directors to bind company ) do not apply to the acts of a company that is a charity except in favour of a person who— ( a ) does not know at the time the act is done that the company is a charity , or ( b ) gives full consideration in money or money 's worth in relation to the act in question and does not know ( as the case may be)— ( i ) that the act is not permitted by the company 's constitution , or ( ii ) that the act is beyond the powers of the directors .
If , in the case of a statement under section 1 , there are no particulars to be entered under any of the heads of paragraph ( d ) or ( k ) of subsection ( 4 ) of that section , or under any of the other paragraphs of subsection ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) of that section , that fact shall be stated .
As regards England and Wales and Northern Ireland , the term implied by subsection ( 1 ) above is a condition and the terms implied by subsections ( 2 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) above are warranties .
In this section “ public authority ” includes—
Regulations made by the Secretary of State may provide for the appointment in prescribed cases by recognised trade unions ( within the meaning of the regulations ) of safety representatives from amongst the employees , and those representatives shall represent the employees in consultations with the employers under subsection ( 6 ) below and shall have such other functions as may be prescribed .
The Compliance Officer must— ( a ) consider whether the determination ( or the altered determination ) is the determination that should have been made , and ( b ) in light of that consideration , decide whether or not to confirm or alter it .
Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods , and the goods without the knowledge of the seller have perished at the time when the contract is made , the contract is void .
deal with any other matter which was normally dealt with before the passing of this Act by proclamations summoning new Parliaments ( except a matter dealt with by subsection ( 1 ) or ( 3 ) ) .
The principle of the supremacy of EU law does not apply to any enactment or rule of law passed or made on or after exit day .
either the place of work or , where the employee is required or permitted to work at various places , an indication of that and of the address of the employer ,
consist of or include members of any prescribed description .
The Academy agreement must provide that the power to terminate the agreement on the ground that the Academy is coasting is available only if the proprietor has failed to comply with a termination warning notice ( whether by failing to take specified action , or to respond , on time ) .
to protect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of services provided in the course of carrying on the regulated activity of accepting deposits .
facilities for the accepting of deposits or other payments into an account which is provided in the course of carrying on the core activity of accepting deposits ;
A regulator 's policy in determining what the amount of a penalty should be , or what the period for which a suspension or restriction is to have effect should be , must include having regard to— ( a ) the seriousness of the contravention in question in relation to the nature of the requirement contravened ; ( b ) the extent to which that contravention was deliberate or reckless ; and ( c ) whether the person against whom action is to be taken is an individual .
the following provisions of this section , and
In subsection ( 1 ) “ relevant expectation”— ( a ) in relation to a function or activity which meets condition A or B , means the expectation mentioned in the condition concerned , and ( b ) in relation to a function or activity which meets condition C , means any expectation as to the manner in which , or the reasons for which , the function or activity will be performed that arises from the position of trust mentioned in that condition .
No payment of salary is to be made to a member before the member has made and subscribed the oath required by the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866 ( or the corresponding affirmation ) .
the exercise of a function conferred on a person by an enactment or rule of law ,
standards applicable to public authorities in connection with the disclosure of datasets .
to enable any of the things mentioned in paragraphs ( a ) to ( c ) above to be done .
the provision and maintenance of plant and systems of work that are , so far as is reasonably practicable , safe and without risks to health ;
A person who— ( a ) does not have parental responsibility for a particular child ; but ( b ) has care of the child , may ( subject to the provisions of this Act ) do what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the child ’s welfare .
whether any act or other event proof of which is required for conviction of the offence occurred in the home country concerned ; or
Where under a contract of sale the transfer of the property in the goods is to take place at a future time or subject to some condition later to be fulfilled the contract is called an agreement to sell .
Salaries are to be paid on a monthly basis in arrears .
in light of that consideration , decide whether or not to confirm or alter it .
References in this Act to a child whose father and mother were , or ( as the case may be ) were not , married to each other at the time of his birth must be read with section 1 of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 ( which extends their meaning ) .
Those purposes are—
The regulated activity of accepting deposits ( whether carried on in the United Kingdom or elsewhere ) is a core activity unless it is carried on in circumstances specified by the Treasury by order .
Where more than one person has parental responsibility for a child , each of them may act alone and without the other ( or others ) in meeting that responsibility ; but nothing in this Part shall be taken to affect the operation of any enactment which requires the consent of more than one person in a matter affecting the child .
the inclusion in contracts entered into by public authorities of terms relating to the disclosure of information ,
A relevant commercial organisation ( “ C ” ) is guilty of an offence under this section if a person ( “ A ” ) associated with C bribes another person intending— ( a ) to obtain or retain business for C , or ( b ) to obtain or retain an advantage in the conduct of business for C.
The duties imposed by subsections ( 1 ) to ( 7 ) also apply in relation to the exercise of any powers which— ( a ) are exercisable under a lasting power of attorney , or ( b ) are exercisable by a person under this Act where he reasonably believes that another person lacks capacity .
In subsection ( 2A ) “ parent ” means parent of the child concerned ; and , for the purposes of that subsection , a parent of the child concerned—
consultation with persons to whom the information requested relates or persons whose interests are likely to be affected by the disclosure of information ,
any donee of a lasting power of attorney granted by the person , and
A court , in the circumstances mentioned in subsection ( 4)(a ) or ( 7 ) , is as respects each parent within subsection ( 6)(a ) to presume , unless the contrary is shown , that involvement of that parent in the life of the child concerned will further the child 's welfare .
A court or tribunal determining a question which has arisen in connection with a Convention right must take into account any— ( a ) judgment , decision , declaration or advisory opinion of the European Court of Human Rights , ( b ) opinion of the Commission given in a report adopted under Article 31 of the Convention , ( c ) decision of the Commission in connection with Article 26 or 27(2 ) of the Convention , or ( d ) decision of the Committee of Ministers taken under Article 46 of the Convention , whenever made or given , so far as , in the opinion of the court or tribunal , it is relevant to the proceedings in which that question has arisen .
Subject to subsection ( 3 ) below , in the case of such an offence at least one significant link with domestic jurisdiction must exist in the circumstances of the case for the offence to be committed .
a feature arising from the design or construction of a building , ( b ) a feature of an approach to , exit from or access to a building ,
one or more factors specific to the physical , physiological , genetic , mental , economic , cultural or social identity of the individual .
If the Commissioner— ( a ) has received an application under section 50 , or ( b ) reasonably requires any information— ( i ) for the purpose of determining whether a public authority has complied or is complying with any of the requirements of Part I , or ( ii ) for the purpose of determining whether the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act conforms with that proposed in the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46 , he may serve the authority with a notice ( in this Act referred to as “ an information notice ” ) requiring it , within such time as is specified in the notice , to furnish the Commissioner , in such form as may be so specified , with such information relating to the application , to compliance with Part I or to conformity with the code of practice as is so specified .
in the case of a process for which an authorisation is refused , the date of the refusal or , on an appeal , of the affirmation of the refusal .
For the purposes of this section— ( a ) a school has a surplus immediately before the conversion date if , at that time , there is an amount made available in respect of the school by a local authority to the school 's governing body ( under section 50 of SSFA 1998 or otherwise ) that has not been spent by the governing body or the head teacher ; ( b ) the amount of the surplus is that amount .
descriptions of persons to whom the first , second or third requirement does not apply .
But it is a defence for C to prove that C had in place adequate procedures designed to prevent persons associated with C from undertaking such conduct .
the person 's past and present wishes and feelings ( and , in particular , any relevant written statement made by him when he had capacity ) ,
Where a child ’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his birth—
A court or tribunal— ( a ) is not bound by any principles laid down , or any decisions made , on or after exit day by the European Court , and ( b ) can not refer any matter to the European Court on or after exit day .
Regulations may prescribe—
The power under this section may ( but need not ) be exercised so as to have effect in relation to all the regulated activities that the person concerned carries on .
For the purposes of this Chapter , the cases in which a person ( “ P ” ) other than an authorised person is to be regarded as failing include any case where P enters insolvency .
to publish a statement under section 205 ( whether or not in the terms proposed ) ,
an authority or body specified or described by the Secretary of State in regulations
An order under subsection ( 2 ) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion that it is not necessary for either of the following purposes that the regulated activity of accepting deposits should be a core activity when carried on in the specified circumstances .
The Minister who has power to make rules in relation to a particular tribunal may , to the extent he considers it necessary to ensure that the tribunal can provide an appropriate remedy in relation to an act ( or proposed act ) of a public authority which is ( or would be ) unlawful as a result of section 6(1 ) , by order add to— ( a ) the relief or remedies which the tribunal may grant ; or ( b ) the grounds on which it may grant any of them .
if it appears likely that he will , when that is likely to be .
A person ( A ) discriminates against another ( B ) if , because of a protected characteristic , A treats B less favourably than A treats or would treat others .
references to “ 16 years ” are to be read as references to “ 13 years ” , and
makes provision for , or in connection with , other arrangements which—
does not affect the title of a person who subsequently acquires the property or any interest in it for full consideration without actual notice of any such circumstances affecting the validity of the company 's act .
subsection ( 1)(a ) and ( b ) of this section , and
An Academy order in respect of a school is an order for the purpose of enabling the school to be converted into an Academy .
he becomes registered as the child ’s father under any of the enactments specified in subsection ( 1A )
it is no longer possible for there to be a relevant appeal , and
Sections 39 and 40 ( company 's capacity and power of directors to bind company ) do not apply to the acts of a company that is a charity except in favour of a person who—
The reference in subsection ( 1 ) above to the means to be used for the purposes there mentioned includes a reference to the manner in which the plant provided for those purposes is used and to the supervision of any operation involving the emission of the substances to which that subsection applies .
the currency in which remuneration is to be paid while he is working outside the United Kingdom ,
A determination ( other than the first determination ) may have retrospective effect .
A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable— ( a ) on summary conviction in England and Wales , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both ; ( b ) on summary conviction in Scotland , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both ; ( c ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine or to both .
facilities for withdrawing money or making payments from such an account ;
a requirement under section 56(6 ) where the authorised person concerned is a PRA - authorised person and the prohibition order concerned is made by the PRA ;
that there has been undue delay in making the application ,
sitting as a court of appeal otherwise than in relation to a compatibility issue ( within the meaning given by section 288ZA(2 ) of the Criminal Procedure ( Scotland ) Act 1995 ) or a devolution issue ( within the meaning given by paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to the Scotland Act 1998 ) , or
In the case of a federated school , references in this section to the governing body include references to members of the governing body who— ( a ) together make up a proportion of the total number of members that is specified in , or determined in accordance with , regulations , and ( b ) consist of or include members of any prescribed description .
In the circumstances mentioned in subsection ( 4 ) , a court shall have regard in particular to—
“ Identifiable living individual ” means a living individual who can be identified , directly or indirectly , in particular by reference to— ( a ) an identifier such as a name , an identification number , location data or an online identifier , or ( b ) one or more factors specific to the physical , physiological , genetic , mental , economic , cultural or social identity of the individual .
In exercising , or deciding whether to exercise , its power under section 206 or 206 in the case of any particular contravention , a regulator must have regard to any statement published by it under this section and in force at the time when the contravention in question occurred .
In relation to an offence under section 1 , either of the following is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction— ( a ) that the accused was in the home country concerned at the time when he did the act which caused the computer to perform the function ; or ( b ) that any computer containing any program or data to which the accused by doing that act secured or intended to secure unauthorised access , or enabled or intended to enable unauthorised access to be secured , was in the home country concerned at that time .
An Academy agreement in respect of an Academy school or an alternative provision Academy must include provision allowing the Secretary of State to terminate the agreement if— ( a ) special measures are required to be taken in relation to the Academy , or ( b ) the Academy requires significant improvement .
a requirement that is imposed under any provision of this Act by the PRA
the court , on his application , orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child .
For this purpose— ( a ) a person “ deals with ” a company if he is a party to any transaction or other act to which the company is a party , ( b ) a person dealing with a company— ( i ) is not bound to enquire as to any limitation on the powers of the directors to bind the company or authorise others to do so , ( ii ) is presumed to have acted in good faith unless the contrary is proved , and ( iii ) is not to be regarded as acting in bad faith by reason only of his knowing that an act is beyond the powers of the directors under the company 's constitution .
disclosure by transmission , dissemination or otherwise making available ,
In the case of a contravention of a requirement where the contravention constitutes an offence , the “ appropriate regulator ” is whichever of the PRA or the FCA has power to prosecute the offence ( see section 401 ) .
is an official or agent of a public international organisation .
An Academy agreement is an agreement between the Secretary of State and the other party under which— ( a ) the other party gives the undertakings in subsection ( 5 ) , and ( b ) the Secretary of State agrees to make payments to the other party in consideration of those undertakings .
If an order under section 142B(5 ) provides for an activity other than that of accepting deposits to be a core activity , the Treasury must by order provide that specified services provided in the course of carrying on that activity are core services .
A statement under subsection ( 1 ) shall be given at the earliest opportunity and , in any event , not later than— ( a ) one month after the change in question , or ( b ) where that change results from the employee being required to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month , the time when he leaves the United Kingdom in order to begin so to work , if that is earlier .
If an Academy order is made in respect of a school , the Secretary of State must give a copy of the order to— ( a ) the governing body and head teacher of the school , ( b ) the local authority , and ( c ) in the case of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation— ( i ) the trustees of the school , ( ii ) the person or persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed , and ( iii ) in the case of a school which has a religious character , the appropriate religious body .
In subsection ( 2A ) “ involvement ” means involvement of some kind , either direct or indirect , but not any particular division of a child 's time .
the amount of the surplus is that amount .
In a contract of sale “ month ” prima facie means calendar month .
In deciding whether to depart from any retained EU case law , the Supreme Court or the High Court of Justiciary must apply the same test as it would apply in deciding whether to depart from its own case law .
It shall be the duty of each person who has , to any extent , control of premises to which this section applies or of the means of access thereto or egress therefrom or of any plant or substance in such premises to take such measures as it is reasonable for a person in his position to take to ensure , so far as is reasonably practicable , that the premises , all means of access thereto or egress therefrom available for use by persons using the premises , and any plant or substance in the premises or , as the case may be , provided for use there , is or are safe and without risks to health .
consider whether the determination ( or the altered determination ) is the determination that should have been made , and
it is not an EU decision addressed only to a member State other than the United Kingdom , and
The duties imposed by subsections ( 1 ) to ( 7 ) also apply in relation to the exercise of any powers which—
The fact that a person has , or does not have , parental responsibility for a child shall not affect— ( a ) any obligation which he may have in relation to the child ( such as a statutory duty to maintain the child ) ; or ( b ) any rights which , in the event of the child ’s death , he ( or any other person ) may have in relation to the child ’s property .
establishing or maintaining a branch in a specified country or territory ;
The Treasury may by order provide for an activity other than the regulated activity of dealing in investments as principal to be an excluded activity , either generally or when carried on in circumstances specified in the order .
The governing body of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation must consult the foundation before making an application under this section .
as the result of one or more provisions of primary legislation , the authority could not have acted differently ; or
The FCA is “ the appropriate regulator ” in the case of a contravention of any other requirement imposed by or under this Act .
For the purposes of this Part risks arising out of or in connection with the activities of persons at work shall be treated as including risks attributable to the manner of conducting an undertaking , the plant or substances used for the purposes of an undertaking and the condition of premises so used or any part of them .
in a case where B is a man , no account is to be taken of special treatment afforded to a woman in connection with pregnancy or childbirth .
pensions and pension schemes ,
It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to promote the following of good practice by public authorities and , in particular , so to perform his functions under this Act as to promote the observance by public authorities of— ( a ) the requirements of this Act , and ( b ) the provisions of the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46 .
by or under this Act
the provision of advice and assistance by public authorities to persons who propose to make , or have made , requests for information to them ,
In this section— ( a ) a reference to doing an act includes a reference to causing an act to be done ; ( b ) “ act ” includes a series of acts ; ( c ) a reference to impairing , preventing or hindering something includes a reference to doing so temporarily .
But “ ring - fenced body ” does not include—
an activity that supports or promotes democratic engagement .
otherwise , the day on which the person ceases to be a member .
For the purposes of Article 9(2)(h ) of the GDPR ( processing for health or social care purposes etc ) , the circumstances in which the processing of personal data is carried out subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in Article 9(3 ) of the GDPR ( obligation of secrecy ) include circumstances in which it is carried out— ( a ) by or under the responsibility of a health professional or a social work professional , or ( b ) by another person who in the circumstances owes a duty of confidentiality under an enactment or rule of law .
any body corporate incorporated in the United Kingdom that has a ring - fenced body as a member of its group
the grounds on which it may grant any of them .
If the protected characteristic is marriage and civil partnership , this section applies to a contravention of Part 5 ( work ) only if the treatment is because it is B who is married or a civil partner .
In this Act “ ring - fenced body ” means a UK institution which carries on one or more core activities ( see section 142B ) in relation to which it has a Part 4A permission .
to carry out or arrange for the carrying out of such testing and examination as may be necessary for the performance of the duty imposed on him by the preceding paragraph ;
For the purposes of this section a person— ( a ) becomes a member of the House of Commons when ( having been elected to that House ) the person makes and subscribes the oath required by the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866 ( or the corresponding affirmation ) , and ( b ) ceases to be a member of that House when— ( i ) the Parliament to which the person was elected is dissolved , or ( ii ) the person 's seat is otherwise vacated .
The Secretary of State may by order amend subsection ( 1A ) so as to add further enactments to the list in that subsection .
by a qualifying EU provision specified , or of a description specified , for the purposes of this subsection by the Treasury by order , or
the provision by public authorities of procedures for dealing with complaints about the handling by them of requests for information .
A regulator must , without delay , give the Treasury a copy of any statement which it publishes under this section .
on a comparison for the purposes of section 14 , one of the protected characteristics in the combination is disability .
The local authority must pay any amount determined under subsection ( 2)(b ) to the proprietor of the Academy , subject to the provisions of regulations under subsection ( 4 ) .
the representations made to it in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) ; and
A person who has parental responsibility for a child at any time shall not cease to have that responsibility solely because some other person subsequently acquires parental responsibility for the child .
Any such modification is indicated in the section concerned by a reference to Schedule 1 below .
Subsection ( 4)(d)(iii ) does not apply to an employee of a body or authority if—
Case 3 is where R requests , agrees to receive or accepts a financial or other advantage intending that , in consequence , a relevant function or activity should be performed improperly ( whether by R or another person ) .
making premises , goods or services available to be used for the purposes of the Academy .
The making of any such arrangement shall not affect any liability of the person making it which may arise from any failure to meet any part of his parental responsibility for the child concerned .
the range of powers available to the court under this Act in the proceedings in question .
the period of one year beginning with the date on which the act complained of took place ; or
specifying ( by description or otherwise)—
its effect is not reproduced in an enactment to which section 2(1 ) applies ,
Regulations may make provision in connection with the determination and payment of the amount of a surplus under this section .
in the case of a process for which an authorisation is granted , the date on which the enforcing authority grants it , whether in pursuance of the application or , on an appeal , of a direction to grant it ;
The statement shall also contain particulars , as at a specified date not more than seven days before the statement ( or the instalment containing them ) is given , of— ( a ) the scale or rate of remuneration or the method of calculating remuneration , ( b ) the intervals at which remuneration is paid ( that is , weekly , monthly or other specified intervals ) , ( c ) any terms and conditions relating to hours of work ( including any terms and conditions relating to normal working hours ) , ( d ) any terms and conditions relating to any of the following— ( i ) entitlement to holidays , including public holidays , and holiday pay ( the particulars given being sufficient to enable the employee ’s entitlement , including any entitlement to accrued holiday pay on the termination of employment , to be precisely calculated ) , ( ii ) incapacity for work due to sickness or injury , including any provision for sick pay , and ( iii ) pensions and pension schemes , ( e ) the length of notice which the employee is obliged to give and entitled to receive to terminate his contract of employment , ( f ) the title of the job which the employee is employed to do or a brief description of the work for which he is employed , ( g ) where the employment is not intended to be permanent , the period for which it is expected to continue or , if it is for a fixed term , the date when it is to end , ( h ) either the place of work or , where the employee is required or permitted to work at various places , an indication of that and of the address of the employer , ( j ) any collective agreements which directly affect the terms and conditions of the employment including , where the employer is not a party , the persons by whom they were made , and ( k ) where the employee is required to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month— ( i ) the period for which he is to work outside the United Kingdom , ( ii ) the currency in which remuneration is to be paid while he is working outside the United Kingdom , ( iii ) any additional remuneration payable to him , and any benefits to be provided to or in respect of him , by reason of his being required to work outside the United Kingdom , and ( iv ) any terms and conditions relating to his return to the United Kingdom .
An early parliamentary general election is also to take place if— ( a ) the House of Commons passes a motion in the form set out in subsection ( 4 ) , and ( b ) the period of 14 days after the day on which that motion is passed ends without the House passing a motion in the form set out in subsection ( 5 ) .
each payment of an allowance by the IPSA under or by virtue of this section .
The PRA is “ the appropriate regulator ” in the case of a contravention of—
the relief or remedies which the tribunal may grant ; or
The Treasury may by order provide for a regulated activity other than that of accepting deposits to be a core activity , either generally or when carried on in circumstances specified in the order .
The circumstances relating to a case include a person 's abilities if—
shall be given at the earliest opportunity and , in any event , not later than—
it refers to , or contains adaptations of , anything falling within paragraph ( a ) , and
where the employee is required to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month—
An educational institution meets the requirements of this section if— ( a ) it is principally concerned with providing full - time or part - time education for children of compulsory school age who , by reason of illness , exclusion from school or otherwise , may not otherwise receive suitable education for any period , ( b ) it provides education for children of different abilities , and ( c ) it provides education for children who are wholly or mainly drawn from the area in which it is situated .
has failed to comply with any of the requirements of sections 11 and 17 ,
Once Parliament dissolves , Her Majesty may issue the proclamation summoning the new Parliament which may— ( a ) appoint the day for the first meeting of the new Parliament ; ( b ) deal with any other matter which was normally dealt with before the passing of this Act by proclamations summoning new Parliaments ( except a matter dealt with by subsection ( 1 ) or ( 3 ) ) .
A member of a company is not bound by an alteration to its articles after the date on which he became a member , if and so far as the alteration— ( a ) requires him to take or subscribe for more shares than the number held by him at the date on which the alteration is made , or ( b ) in any way increases his liability as at that date to contribute to the company 's share capital or otherwise to pay money to the company .
Any question as to the validity , meaning or effect of any retained EU law is to be decided , so far as that law is unmodified on or after exit day and so far as they are relevant to it— ( a ) in accordance with any retained case law and any retained general principles of EU law , and ( b ) having regard ( among other things ) to the limits , immediately before exit day , of EU competences .
does not apply to any such legislation for which there is no such version ,
For the purposes of Article 9(2)(h ) of the GDPR ( processing for health or social care purposes etc ) , the circumstances in which the processing of personal data is carried out subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in Article 9(3 ) of the GDPR ( obligation of secrecy ) include circumstances in which it is carried out
a further appeal in relation to the Compliance Officer 's decision which—
The IPSA must publish such information as it considers appropriate in respect of—
that person shall be treated , for the purposes of subsection ( 2 ) above , as being a person who has control of the matters to which his obligation extends .
The regulators must take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the scheme manager is , at all times , capable of exercising the functions conferred on it by or under this Part or Part 15A.
The regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person with a copy of the statement .
for the purpose of determining whether a public authority has complied or is complying with any of the requirements of Part I , or
things which are , or which are not , to be treated as auxiliary aids .
circumstances in which it is , or in which it is not , reasonable for a person of a prescribed description to have to take steps of a prescribed description ;
Each regulator must prepare and issue a statement of its policy with respect to—
In the case of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation , this is subject to subsections ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) .
the length of notice which the employee is obliged to give and entitled to receive to terminate his contract of employment ,
A person 's absence is because of gender reassignment if it is because the person is proposing to undergo , is undergoing or has undergone the process ( or part of the process ) mentioned in section 7(1 ) .
But , if the polling day for the previous parliamentary general election— ( a ) was appointed under section 2(7 ) , and ( b ) in the calendar year in which it fell , fell before the first Thursday in May , subsection ( 3 ) has effect as if for “ fifth ” there were substituted “ fourth ” .
of which the person making the determination is aware , and
“ An act ” includes a failure to act but does not include a failure to— ( a ) introduce in , or lay before , Parliament a proposal for legislation ; or ( b ) make any primary legislation or remedial order .
In cases 3 to 6 it does not matter— ( a ) whether R requests , agrees to receive or accepts ( or is to request , agree to receive or accept ) the advantage directly or through a third party , ( b ) whether the advantage is ( or is to be ) for the benefit of R or another person .
Where the Commissioner has received an application under this section , he shall either—
to use or weigh that information as part of the process of making the decision , or
in the first year of each Parliament ;
A reference in this section or an applicable Schedule to chattels is to be read , in relation to Scotland , as a reference to moveable property .
Where a court is considering whether or not to make one or more orders under this Act with respect to a child , it shall not make the order or any of the orders unless it considers that doing so would be better for the child than making no order at all .
On receiving an application under this section , the Commissioner shall make a decision unless it appears to him— ( a ) that the complainant has not exhausted any complaints procedure which is provided by the public authority in conformity with the code of practice under section 45 , ( b ) that there has been undue delay in making the application , ( c ) that the application is frivolous or vexatious , or ( d ) that the application has been withdrawn or abandoned .
in the calendar year in which it fell , fell before the first Thursday in May ,
Subsection ( 4 ) applies in any proceedings in which a court determines whether a provision of subordinate legislation , made in the exercise of a power conferred by primary legislation , is compatible with a Convention right .
Nothing in this section affects a condition or warranty whose fulfilment is excused by law by reason of impossibility or otherwise .
Once Parliament dissolves , Her Majesty may issue the proclamation summoning the new Parliament which may—
the Parliament to which the person was elected is dissolved , or
Before a maintained school in England which is causing concern is converted into an Academy , the proposed proprietor of the Academy must communicate to the registered parents of registered pupils at the school information about the proposed proprietor 's plans to improve the school .
A person ( A ) discriminates against a disabled person ( B ) if— ( a ) A treats B unfavourably because of something arising in consequence of B 's disability , and ( b ) A can not show that the treatment is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim .
The Compliance Officer must—
paragraphs ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) of section 10(1 ) and of section 10A(1 ) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953
Any substance or a substance of any description prescribed for the purposes of subsection ( 1 ) above as noxious or offensive shall be a noxious or , as the case may be , an offensive substance for those purposes whether or not it would be so apart from this subsection .
In the case of an act done , or a decision made , by a person other than the court , there is sufficient compliance with this section if ( having complied with the requirements of subsections ( 1 ) to ( 7 ) ) he reasonably believes that what he does or decides is in the best interests of the person concerned .
What is a reasonable price is a question of fact dependent on the circumstances of each particular case .
Consultation for the purposes of this section may be carried out before or after an Academy order , or an application for an Academy order , has been made in respect of the school .
In this Act “ direct EU legislation ” means—
Where under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer the contract is called a sale .
the practice of reviewing records before they are transferred under those provisions .
If the protected characteristic is disability , and B is not a disabled person , A does not discriminate against B only because A treats or would treat disabled persons more favourably than A treats B.
In deciding whether to make an order under subsection ( 4 ) in relation to any activity , the Treasury must— ( a ) have regard to the risks to which a ring - fenced body would be exposed if it carried on the activity concerned , and ( b ) consider whether the carrying on of that activity by a ring - fenced body would make it more likely that the failure of the body would have an adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services .
In paragraph 1(e ) “ lay person ” means a person who is not , and has never been , a member of either House of Parliament .
any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client in connection with the giving of legal advice to the client with respect to his obligations , liabilities or rights under this Act , or
discharging its general functions in relation to the matters mentioned in subsection ( 4A ) in a way that seeks to—
The validity of an act done by a company shall not be called into question on the ground of lack of capacity by reason of anything in the company 's constitution .
Any person ( in this section referred to as “ the complainant ” ) may apply to the Commissioner for a decision whether , in any specified respect , a request for information made by the complainant to a public authority has been dealt with in accordance with the requirements of Part I.
that ( disregarding any possibility of revocation ) the primary legislation concerned prevents removal of the incompatibility ,
or a warranty , the breach of which may give rise to a claim for damages but not to a right to reject the goods and treat the contract as repudiated ,
The code of practice must , in particular , include provision relating to—
A person ( A ) discriminates against a woman if A treats her unfavourably because she is exercising or seeking to exercise , or has exercised or sought to exercise , the right to ordinary or additional maternity leave .
The Secretary of State may make an Academy order in respect of a maintained school in England if— ( a ) an application in respect of the school is made under section 3 , or ( b ) the school is eligible for intervention ( within the meaning of Part 4 of EIA 2006 ) other than by virtue of section 61 or 62 of EIA 2006
For the purposes of subsection ( 1 ) , a provision , criterion or practice is discriminatory in relation to a relevant protected characteristic of B 's if—
commission of that offence is alleged in proceedings for an offence under section 2 above ;
Under the law of England and Wales or Northern Ireland a company may , by instrument executed as a deed , empower a person , either generally or in respect of specified matters , as its attorney to execute deeds or other documents on its behalf .
The PRA is “ the appropriate regulator ” in the case of a contravention of— ( a ) a requirement that is imposed under any provision of this Act by the PRA ; ( b ) a requirement under section 56(6 ) where the authorised person concerned is a PRA - authorised person and the prohibition order concerned is made by the PRA ; ( c ) a requirement under section 59(1 ) or ( 2 ) where the authorised person concerned is a PRA - authorised person and the approval concerned falls to be given by the PRA .
The draft laid before Parliament must be accompanied by a statement setting out the Prime Minister ’s reasons for proposing the change in the polling day .
( a ) on summary conviction in England and Wales , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both ; ( b ) on summary conviction in Scotland , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both
The appeal must be brought before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which notice of the decision is sent to the member ( unless the Tribunal directs that it may be brought after the end of that period ) .
The time specified in an information notice must not expire before the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and , if such an appeal is brought , the information need not be furnished pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal .
The reference in subsection ( 3 ) to treating a woman unfavourably because she has given birth includes , in particular , a reference to treating her unfavourably because she is breast - feeding .
a person to whom the employee can apply if dissatisfied with any disciplinary decision relating to him or any decision to dismiss him , and
An agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time elapses or the conditions are fulfilled subject to which the property in the goods is to be transferred .
Where an employee begins employment with an employer , the employer shall give to the employee a written statement of particulars of employment .
a building society within the meaning of the Building Societies Act 1986 , or
is presumed to have acted in good faith unless the contrary is proved ,
But in applying this section to the tax year 2010 - 11—
judgment , decision , declaration or advisory opinion of the European Court of Human Rights ,
Regulations may prescribe— ( a ) matters to be taken into account in deciding whether it is reasonable for A to take a step for the purposes of a prescribed provision of an applicable Schedule ; ( b ) descriptions of persons to whom the first , second or third requirement does not apply .
Before the act is done , or the decision is made , regard must be had to whether the purpose for which it is needed can be as effectively achieved in a way that is less restrictive of the person 's rights and freedom of action .
If the appropriate regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a relevant requirement imposed on the person , it may—
This section has effect for the purposes of the application of Part 5 ( work ) to the protected characteristic of gender reassignment .
all relevant appeals have been withdrawn or determined .
Subsection ( 1 ) does not apply to an act if—
ensure that the business of ring - fenced bodies is protected from risks ( arising in the United Kingdom or elsewhere ) that could adversely affect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services , and
it is appropriate to retain , or ( g ) contains EU references which are no longer appropriate .
In deciding whether to make an order under subsection ( 4 ) in relation to any activity , the Treasury must—
Any one or more of the powers under— ( a ) subsection ( 1)(a ) and ( b ) of this section , and ( b ) sections 205 and 206 , may be exercised in relation to the same contravention .
she gives birth to a dead child ( more than 24 weeks of the pregnancy having passed ) .
The circumstances relating to a case include a person 's abilities if— ( a ) on a comparison for the purposes of section 13 , the protected characteristic is disability ; ( b ) on a comparison for the purposes of section 14 , one of the protected characteristics in the combination is disability .
the imposition of penalties , suspensions or restrictions under this Part ;
On receiving an application under this section , the Commissioner shall make a decision unless it appears to him—
The appropriate regulator may— ( a ) withdraw a suspension or restriction ; or ( b ) vary a suspension or restriction so as to reduce the period for which it has effect or otherwise to limit its effect .
The statement shall contain particulars of— ( a ) the names of the employer and employee , ( b ) the date when the employment began , and ( c ) the date on which the employee ’s period of continuous employment began ( taking into account any employment with a previous employer which counts towards that period ) .
Accordingly , the principle of the supremacy of EU law continues to apply on or after exit day so far as relevant to the interpretation , disapplication or quashing of any enactment or rule of law passed or made before exit day .
is not bound by any principles laid down , or any decisions made , on or after exit day by the European Court , and
Subsection ( 1 ) does not apply in a case where the member agrees in writing , either before or after the alteration is made , to be bound by the alteration .
In deciding what such a person would expect in relation to the performance of a function or activity where the performance is not subject to the law of any part of the United Kingdom , any local custom or practice is to be disregarded unless it is permitted or required by the written law applicable to the country or territory concerned .
bring proceedings against the authority under this Act in the appropriate court or tribunal , or
to communicate his decision ( whether by talking , using sign language or any other means ) .
The IPSA must—
on summary conviction in England and Wales , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both ; ( b ) on summary conviction in Scotland , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both
The following are core services—
Subsection ( 2 ) applies if a person is for any part of a tax year— ( a ) a member of the House of Commons , or ( b ) a member of the House of Lords .
In a contract to which subsection ( 3 ) above applies there is also an implied term that none of the following will disturb the buyer ’s quiet possession of the goods , namely— ( a ) the seller ; ( b ) in a case where the parties to the contract intend that the seller should transfer only such title as a third person may have , that person ; ( c ) anyone claiming through or under the seller or that third person otherwise than under a charge or encumbrance disclosed or known to the buyer before the contract is made .
does not know at the time the act is done that the company is a charity , or
A person ( A ) discriminates against a woman if , in the protected period in relation to a pregnancy of hers , A treats her unfavourably— ( a ) because of the pregnancy , or ( b ) because of illness suffered by her as a result of it .
It shall be the duty of every self - employed person who conducts an undertaking of a prescribed description to conduct the undertaking in such a way as to ensure , so far as is reasonably practicable , that he and other persons ( not being his employees ) who may be affected thereby are not thereby exposed to risks to their health or safety .
any rights which , in the event of the child ’s death , he ( or any other person ) may have in relation to the child ’s property .
any obligation which he may have in relation to the child ( such as a statutory duty to maintain the child ) ; or
For the purposes of this Act a relevant function or activity— ( a ) is performed improperly if it is performed in breach of a relevant expectation , and ( b ) is to be treated as being performed improperly if there is a failure to perform the function or activity and that failure is itself a breach of a relevant expectation .
If the court is satisfied— ( a ) that the provision is incompatible with a Convention right , and ( b ) that ( disregarding any possibility of revocation ) the primary legislation concerned prevents removal of the incompatibility , it may make a declaration of that incompatibility .
any failure of retained EU law to operate effectively , or
This section— ( a ) brings into domestic law any direct EU legislation only in the form of the English language version of that legislation , and ( b ) does not apply to any such legislation for which there is no such version , but paragraph ( a ) does not affect the use of the other language versions of that legislation for the purposes of interpreting it .
The polling day for the next parliamentary general election after the passing of this Act is to be 7 May 2015 .
The information relevant to a decision includes information about the reasonably foreseeable consequences of— ( a ) deciding one way or another , or ( b ) failing to make the decision .
any other deficiency in retained EU law , arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU .
A statement under section 1 may refer the employee for particulars of any of the matters specified in subsection ( 4)(d)(ii ) and ( iii ) of that section to the provisions of some other document which is reasonably accessible to the employee .
by a Northern Ireland department , in relation to proceedings before a tribunal in Northern Ireland—
prepare guidance for members of the House of Commons about making claims under the MPs ' allowances scheme ;
A person who claims that a public authority has acted ( or proposes to act ) in a way which is made unlawful by section 6(1 ) may— ( a ) bring proceedings against the authority under this Act in the appropriate court or tribunal , or ( b ) rely on the Convention right or rights concerned in any legal proceedings , but only if he is ( or would be ) a victim of the unlawful act .
A person is guilty of an offence if— ( a ) he does any unauthorised act in relation to a computer ; ( b ) at the time when he does the act he knows that it is unauthorised ; and ( c ) either subsection ( 2 ) or subsection ( 3 ) below applies .
in relation to a matter particulars of which—
The amounts of the salaries are to be determined by the IPSA ( see section 4A ) .
the seriousness of the contravention in question in relation to the nature of the requirement contravened ;
minimise the risk that the failure of a ring - fenced body or of a member of a ring - fenced body ’s group could affect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services .
introduce in , or lay before , Parliament a proposal for legislation ; or
arrangements for ensuring , so far as is reasonably practicable , safety and absence of risks to health in connection with the use , handling , storage and transport of articles and substances ;
In carrying out its functions the IPSA must have regard to the principle that members of the House of Commons should be supported in efficiently , cost - effectively and transparently carrying out their Parliamentary functions .
Where a company 's constitution is altered by an order of a court or other authority , the company must give notice to the registrar of the alteration not later than 15 days after the alteration takes effect .
is an appeal against the determination of an appeal which was itself a relevant appeal .
“ Personal data ” means any information relating to an identified or identifiable living individual ( subject to subsection ( 14)(c ) ) .
on a comparison for the purposes of section 13 , the protected characteristic is disability ;
In this section “ rules ” means rules of court or , in the case of proceedings before a tribunal , rules made for the purposes of this section—
In favour of a person dealing with a company in good faith , the power of the directors to bind the company , or authorise others to do so , is deemed to be free of any limitation under the company 's constitution .
whether it is likely that the person will at some time have capacity in relation to the matter in question , and
The polling day for each subsequent parliamentary general election is to be the first Thursday in May in the fifth calendar year following that in which the polling day for the previous parliamentary general election fell .
Before making an Academy order under subsection ( 1)(b ) in respect of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation , the Secretary of State must consult— ( a ) the trustees of the school , ( b ) the person or persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed , and ( c ) in the case of a school which has a religious character , the appropriate religious body .
The IPSA must make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to the Compliance Officer 's decision ; but it must not do so until—
“ Relevant circumstances ” are those—
A relevant appeal is—
Where the first or third requirement relates to the provision of information , the steps which it is reasonable for A to have to take include steps for ensuring that in the circumstances concerned the information is provided in an accessible format .
The period for which a suspension or restriction is to have effect may not exceed 12 months .
the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision if he had capacity , and
In determining for the purposes of this Act what is in a person 's best interests , the person making the determination must not make it merely on the basis of— ( a ) the person 's age or appearance , or ( b ) a condition of his , or an aspect of his behaviour , which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about what might be in his best interests .
A bill of exchange or promissory note is deemed to have been made , accepted or endorsed on behalf of a company if made , accepted or endorsed in the name of , or by or on behalf or on account of , the company by a person acting under its authority .
providing a reasonable means of avoiding it .
The notice must be accompanied by— ( a ) a copy of the order , and ( b ) if the order amends— ( i ) the company 's articles , or ( ii ) a resolution or agreement to which Chapter 3 applies ( resolutions and agreements affecting the company 's constitution ) , a copy of the company 's articles , or the resolution or agreement in question , as amended .
He must consider , so far as is reasonably ascertainable—
“ Relevant requirement ” means a requirement imposed ( a ) by or under this Act , ( b ) by a qualifying EU provision specified , or of a description specified , for the purposes of this subsection by the Treasury by order , or ( c ) by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013
“ Identifiable living individual ” means a living individual who can be identified , directly or indirectly , in particular by reference to—
continue on and after exit day to be recognised and available in domestic law ( and to be enforced , allowed and followed accordingly ) .
He must take into account , if it is practicable and appropriate to consult them , the views of— ( a ) anyone named by the person as someone to be consulted on the matter in question or on matters of that kind , ( b ) anyone engaged in caring for the person or interested in his welfare , ( c ) any donee of a lasting power of attorney granted by the person , and ( d ) any deputy appointed for the person by the court , as to what would be in the person 's best interests and , in particular , as to the matters mentioned in subsection ( 6 ) .
If the company— ( a ) amends its articles , and ( b ) is required to send to the registrar a document making or evidencing the amendment , the company must deliver with that document a statement of compliance .
are otherwise dependent upon the United Kingdom 's membership of the EU , and which no longer exist or are no longer appropriate ,
Where that is the case it is indicated in the section concerned .
Protocol 1 to the EEA agreement ( which contains horizontal adaptations that apply in relation to EU instruments referred to in the Annexes to that agreement ) , as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day .
Before giving to a public authority other than the Public Record Office a practice recommendation which relates to conformity with the code of practice under section 46 in respect of records which are public records for the purposes of the Public Records Act 1958 , the Commissioner shall consult the Keeper of Public Records .
If the Tribunal allows the appeal ( in whole or in part ) it may— ( a ) order the IPSA to make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to that decision ; ( b ) make any other order it thinks fit .
Where a company that is a charity purports to transfer or grant an interest in property , the fact that ( as the case may be)— ( a ) the act was not permitted by the company 's constitution , or ( b ) the directors in connection with the act exceeded any limitation on their powers under the company 's constitution , does not affect the title of a person who subsequently acquires the property or any interest in it for full consideration without actual notice of any such circumstances affecting the validity of the company 's act .
In case 6 , where a person other than R is performing the function or activity , it also does not matter whether that person knows or believes that the performance of the function or activity is improper .
An early parliamentary general election is also to take place if—
Where a court is considering whether to make a declaration of incompatibility , the Crown is entitled to notice in accordance with rules of court .
were in an EU directive and in force immediately before exit day ( including any power to make EU tertiary legislation ) , and
In this section “ rules ” means rules of court or , in the case of proceedings before a tribunal , rules made for the purposes of this section— ( a ) by the Lord Chancellor or the Secretary of State , in relation to any proceedings outside Scotland ; ( b ) by the Secretary of State , in relation to proceedings in Scotland ; or ( c ) by a Northern Ireland department , in relation to proceedings before a tribunal in Northern Ireland— ( i ) which deals with transferred matters ; and ( ii ) for which no rules made under paragraph ( a ) are in force .
For the purposes of section 2 , a person is unable to make a decision for himself if he is unable— ( a ) to understand the information relevant to the decision , ( b ) to retain that information , ( c ) to use or weigh that information as part of the process of making the decision , or ( d ) to communicate his decision ( whether by talking , using sign language or any other means ) .
paragraphs ( a ) , ( b)(i ) and ( c ) of section 18(1 ) , and sections 18(2)(b ) and 20(1)(a ) of the Registration of Births , Deaths and Marriages ( Scotland ) Act 1965 ; and
Unless it is a company to which model articles apply by virtue of section 20 ( default application of model articles in case of limited company ) , it must register articles of association .
Where a child ’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his birth— ( a ) the mother shall have parental responsibility for the child ; ( b ) the father shall have parental responsibility for the child if he has acquired it ( and has not ceased to have it ) in accordance with the provisions of this Act .
anyone engaged in caring for the person or interested in his welfare ,
the accused was a United Kingdom national at that time ; and
This section— ( a ) applies to primary legislation and subordinate legislation whenever enacted ; ( b ) does not affect the validity , continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible primary legislation ; and ( c ) does not affect the validity , continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible subordinate legislation if ( disregarding any possibility of revocation ) primary legislation prevents removal of the incompatibility .
The statement shall also contain particulars , as at a specified date not more than seven days before the statement ( or the instalment containing them ) is given , of—
B 's absence was because of sickness or injury , or
arise under an EU directive ( including as applied by the EEA agreement ) and are not of a kind recognised by the European Court or any court or tribunal in the United Kingdom in a case decided before exit day ( whether or not as an essential part of the decision in the case ) .
a reference to doing an act includes a reference to causing an act to be done ;
Whether or not it is avoided , any such party to the transaction as is mentioned in subsection ( 2)(b)(i ) or ( ii ) , and any director of the company who authorised the transaction , is liable— ( a ) to account to the company for any gain he has made directly or indirectly by the transaction , and ( b ) to indemnify the company for any loss or damage resulting from the transaction .
Provision of the kind mentioned in subsection ( 2)(da ) may , in particular , include provision relating to— ( a ) the giving of permission for datasets to be re - used , ( b ) the disclosure of datasets in an electronic form which is capable of re - use , ( c ) the making of datasets available for re - use in accordance with the terms of a licence , ( d ) other matters relating to the making of datasets available for re - use , ( e ) standards applicable to public authorities in connection with the disclosure of datasets .
about the procedure for , and the Secretary of State 's powers on , any such review
Processing ” , in relation to information , means an operation or set of operations which is performed on information , or on sets of information , such as—
an appeal under subsection ( 6 ) brought before the end of the period mentioned in subsection ( 7 ) , or
Anything that a person does ( or omits to do ) arising from or in connection with that person 's past performance of a relevant function or activity is to be treated for the purposes of this Act as being done ( or omitted ) by that person in the performance of that function or activity .
in any other case , it is in force immediately before exit day .
This section also applies to a proposal to alter or replace a statement .
any person certain of whose functions are functions of a public nature ,
as to what would be in the person 's best interests and , in particular , as to the matters mentioned in subsection ( 6 ) .
any judicial decision which is so applicable and is evidenced in published written sources .
are enforced , allowed and followed accordingly ,
in the case of anything which comes into force at a particular time and is stated to apply from a later time , it is in force and applies immediately before exit day ,
together make up a proportion of the total number of members that is specified in , or determined in accordance with , regulations , and
A copy of every resolution or agreement to which this Chapter applies , or ( in the case of a resolution or agreement that is not in writing ) a written memorandum setting out its terms , must be forwarded to the registrar within 15 days after it is passed or made .
Processing ” , in relation to information , means an operation or set of operations which is performed on information , or on sets of information , such as— ( a ) collection , recording , organisation , structuring or storage , ( b ) adaptation or alteration , ( c ) retrieval , consultation or use , ( d ) disclosure by transmission , dissemination or otherwise making available , ( e ) alignment or combination , or ( f ) restriction , erasure or destruction , ( subject to subsection ( 14)(c ) and sections 5(7 ) , 29(2 ) and 82(3 ) , which make provision about references to processing in the different Parts of this Act ) .
( subject to subsection ( 14)(c ) and sections 5(7 ) , 29(2 ) and 82(3 ) , which make provision about references to processing in the different Parts of this Act ) .
In relation to the second requirement , a reference in this section or an applicable Schedule to avoiding a substantial disadvantage includes a reference to—
A person ( A ) discriminates against another ( B ) if A applies to B a practice which is discriminatory to a protected characteristic of B 's .
A suspension may relate only to the carrying on of an activity in specified circumstances .
If a statement issued under this section is altered or replaced by a regulator , the regulator must issue the altered or replacement statement .
decision of the Commission in connection with Article 26 or 27(2 ) of the Convention , or
decision of the Committee of Ministers taken under Article 46 of the Convention ,
are required by section 2(4 ) to be included in a single document but are not included in an instalment of a statement given under section 1 which does include other particulars to which that provision applies , the material date is the date to which the instalment relates , and
B 's absence was for some other reason and it is not reasonable for B to be treated less favourably .
The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any process which is a prescribed process as from the date which is the determination date for that process .
where the performance of the functions of F which P intends to influence would be subject to the law of any part of the United Kingdom , the law of that part of the United Kingdom ,
P offers , promises or gives a financial or other advantage to another person , and
The IPSA must review the current determination ( and make a new determination as appropriate)— ( a ) in the first year of each Parliament ; ( b ) at any other time it considers appropriate .
has failed to communicate information , or to provide confirmation or denial , in a case where it is required to do so by section 1(1 ) ,
A determination may provide for higher salaries to be payable to members while holding an office or position specified for the purposes of this subsection in a resolution of the House of Commons .
A determination by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) may make different provision for different offices or positions or different classes of member ( and may include exceptions ) .
a requirement under section 59(1 ) or ( 2 ) where the authorised person concerned is a PRA - authorised person and the approval concerned falls to be given by the PRA .
In Article 8(1 ) of the GDPR ( conditions applicable to child ’s consent in relation to information society services)—
For the purposes of subsection ( 5 ) above , the “ determination date ” for a prescribed process is—
A person ( A ) discriminates against a transsexual person ( B ) if , in relation to an absence of B 's that is because of gender reassignment , A treats B less favourably than A would treat B if— ( a ) B 's absence was because of sickness or injury , or ( b ) B 's absence was for some other reason and it is not reasonable for B to be treated less favourably .
requires him to take or subscribe for more shares than the number held by him at the date on which the alteration is made
A person is guilty of an offence under this section if he commits an offence under section 1 above ( “ the unauthorised access offence ” ) with intent—
For the purposes of this Act , any direct EU legislation is operative immediately before exit day if—
any EU regulation , EU decision or EU tertiary legislation , as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day and so far as—
This subsection applies to a contract of sale in the case of which there appears from the contract or is to be inferred from its circumstances an intention that the seller should transfer only such title as he or a third person may have .
Subsection ( 4 ) does not affect the retention in domestic law on or after exit day in accordance with this Act of any fundamental rights or principles which exist irrespective of the Charter ( and references to the Charter in any case law are , so far as necessary for this purpose , to be read as if they were references to any corresponding retained fundamental rights or principles ) .
rights acquired bona fide for value and without actual notice of the directors ' exceeding their powers by a person who is not party to the transaction would be affected by the avoidance , or
it puts , or would put , B at that disadvantage , and
does not affect the validity , continuing operation or enforcement of the provision in respect of which it is given ; and
A regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person with a copy of a draft published under subsection ( 1 ) .
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is not part of domestic law on or after exit day .
An information notice must also contain particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 57 .
Members of the House of Commons are to receive a salary for the relevant period .
In the case of a contravention of a requirement that is imposed by a qualifying EU provision , “ the appropriate regulator ” for the purpose of any provision of this Part is whichever of the PRA or the FCA ( or both ) is specified by the Treasury by order in relation to the qualifying EU provision for the purposes of that provision of this Part .
A person ( A ) discriminates against a woman if , in the period of 26 weeks beginning with the day on which she gives birth , A treats her unfavourably because she has given birth .
Unless a different intention appears from the terms of the contract , stipulations as to time of payment are not of the essence of a contract of sale .
any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client , or between such an adviser or his client and any other person , made in connection with or in contemplation of proceedings under or arising out of this Act ( including proceedings before the Tribunal ) and for the purposes of such proceedings .
Whether a stipulation in a contract of sale is a condition , the breach of which may give rise to a right to treat the contract as repudiated ,
the amount of penalties under this Part ; and
The Secretary of State may by regulations— ( a ) amend Schedule 1— ( i ) by adding or varying conditions or safeguards , and ( ii ) by omitting conditions or safeguards added by regulations under this section , and ( b ) consequentially amend this section .
contains anything which has no practical application in relation to the United Kingdom or any part of it or is otherwise redundant or substantially redundant ,
But “ ring - fenced body ” does not include— ( a ) a building society within the meaning of the Building Societies Act 1986 , or ( b ) a UK institution of a class exempted by order made by the Treasury .
“ Life - sustaining treatment ” means treatment which in the view of a person providing health care for the person concerned is necessary to sustain life .
The Secretary of State must make an Academy order in respect of a maintained school in England that is eligible for intervention by virtue of section 61 or 62 EIA 2006 ( schools requiring significant improvement or schools requiring special measures ) .
References in this Part to the general purposes of this Part are references to the purposes mentioned in subsection ( 1 ) above .
In relation to a member of the House of Lords , in subsection ( 1 ) the reference to any part of a tax year excludes any part of the year during which— ( a ) section 137(3 ) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 applies to the member , or ( b ) the member is entitled to receive writs of summons to attend the House of Lords by virtue of being an archbishop or bishop .
Where a child ’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his birth , the father shall acquire parental responsibility for the child if—
The matters referred to in subsection ( 3)(c ) are—
Where a decision notice requires steps to be taken by the public authority within a specified period , the time specified in the notice must not expire before the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and , if such an appeal is brought , no step which is affected by the appeal need be taken pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal .
Without prejudice to the generality of an employer ’s duty under the preceding subsection , the matters to which that duty extends include in particular—
A direction may , in particular , require the governing body or local authority to prepare a draft of a scheme under section 8 or Part 1 of Schedule 1 .
Where an Academy order under section 4(A1 ) or ( 1)(b ) has effect in respect of a school , the Secretary of State may direct the governing body of the school or the local authority to take specified steps for the purpose of facilitating the conversion of the school into an Academy .
A applies , or would apply , it to persons with whom B does not share the characteristic ,
the scheme ( or revision ) , and
Subject to subsection ( 5 ) below , it shall be the duty of the person having control of any premises of a class prescribed for the purposes of section 1(1)(d ) to use the best practicable means for preventing the emission into the atmosphere from the premises of noxious or offensive substances and for rendering harmless and inoffensive such substances as may be so emitted .
But that is subject to—
Any enactment or rule of law applicable to companies formed by two or more persons or having two or more members applies with any necessary modification in relation to a company formed by one person or having only one person as a member .
The processing meets the requirement in point ( b ) , ( h ) , ( i ) or ( j ) of Article 9(2 ) of the GDPR for authorisation by , or a basis in , the law of the United Kingdom or a part of the United Kingdom only if it meets a condition in Part 1 of Schedule 1 .
In Article 6(1 ) of the GDPR ( lawfulness of processing ) , the reference in point ( e ) to processing of personal data that is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the controller ’s official authority includes processing of personal data that is necessary for—
The Minister who has power to make rules in relation to a particular tribunal may , to the extent he considers it necessary to ensure that the tribunal can provide an appropriate remedy in relation to an act ( or proposed act ) of a public authority which is ( or would be ) unlawful as a result of section 6(1 ) , by order add to—
to prevent or hinder access to any program or data held in any computer ; or
if she has the right to ordinary and additional maternity leave , at the end of the additional maternity leave period or ( if earlier ) when she returns to work after the pregnancy ;
because of illness suffered by her as a result of it .
The appropriate regulator may—
The salaries are to be paid by the IPSA .
In cases 4 to 6 it does not matter whether R knows or believes that the performance of the function or activity is improper .
it is principally concerned with providing full - time or part - time education for children of compulsory school age who , by reason of illness , exclusion from school or otherwise , may not otherwise receive suitable education for any period ,
In Article 8(1 ) of the GDPR ( conditions applicable to child ’s consent in relation to information society services)— ( a ) references to “ 16 years ” are to be read as references to “ 13 years ” , and ( b ) the reference to “ information society services ” does not include preventive or counselling services .
In such cases as may be prescribed it shall be the duty of every employer , if requested to do so by the safety representatives mentioned in subsection ( 4 ) above , to establish , in accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State , a safety committee having the function of keeping under review the measures taken to ensure the health and safety at work of his employees and such other functions as may be prescribed .
Except as provided below in this section , it is immaterial for the purposes of any offence under section 1 , 3 or 3ZA above— ( a ) whether any act or other event proof of which is required for conviction of the offence occurred in the home country concerned ; or ( b ) whether the accused was in the home country concerned at the time of any such act or event .
overdraft facilities in connection with such an account .
any Annex to the EEA agreement , as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day and so far as—
In determining for the purposes of this Act what is in a person 's best interests , the person making the determination must not make it merely on the basis of—
the intervals at which remuneration is paid ( that is , weekly , monthly or other specified intervals ) ,
For the purposes of sections 3 and 4 , the test of what is expected is a test of what a reasonable person in the United Kingdom would expect in relation to the performance of the type of function or activity concerned .
are exercisable under a lasting power of attorney , or
the exercise of a function of the Crown , a Minister of the Crown or a government department , or
A Minister of the Crown may by regulations make such provision as the Minister considers appropriate to prevent , remedy or mitigate—
directly or through a third party , P offers , promises or gives any financial or other advantage—
A person who claims that a public authority has acted ( or proposes to act ) in a way which is made unlawful by section 6(1 ) may—
that an interruption of the provision of services provided in the United Kingdom in the carrying on of the regulated activity concerned could adversely affect the stability of the UK financial system or of a significant part of that system , and
This section applies to offences— ( a ) for which the sentence is fixed by law ; or ( b ) for which a person who has attained the age of twenty - one years ( eighteen in relation to England and Wales ) and has no previous convictions may be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of five years ( or , in England and Wales , might be so sentenced but for the restrictions imposed by section 33 of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 ) .
a statement of its reasons for adopting that scheme ( or making that revision ) .
The IPSA must make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to the Compliance Officer 's decision ; but it must not do so until— ( a ) it is no longer possible for there to be a relevant appeal , and ( b ) all relevant appeals have been withdrawn or determined .
In a contract of sale , other than one to which subsection ( 3 ) below applies , there is also an implied term that—
A description of undertaking included in regulations under subsection ( 2 ) may be framed by reference to—
to commit an offence to which this section applies ; or
Where a company amends its articles so as to add , remove or alter a statement of the company 's objects - ( a ) it must give notice to the registrar , ( b ) on receipt of the notice , the registrar shall register it , and ( c ) the amendment is not effective until entry of that notice on the register .
the transfer of requests by one public authority to another public authority by which the information requested is or may be held ,
The provisions of this Part shall have effect with a view to— ( a ) securing the health , safety and welfare of persons at work ; ( b ) protecting persons other than persons at work against risks to health or safety arising out of or in connection with the activities of persons at work ; ( c ) controlling the keeping and use of explosive or highly flammable or otherwise dangerous substances , and generally preventing the unlawful acquisition , possession and use of such substances ; and ( d ) controlling the emission into the atmosphere of noxious or offensive substances from premises of any class prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph .
In a contract of sale , other than one to which subsection ( 3 ) below applies , there is also an implied term that— ( a ) the goods are free , and will remain free until the time when the property is to pass , from any charge or encumbrance not disclosed or known to the buyer before the contract is made , and ( b ) the buyer will enjoy quiet possession of the goods except so far as it may be disturbed by the owner or other person entitled to the benefit of any charge or encumbrance so disclosed or known .
Subsection ( 1 ) does not apply to any rights , powers , liabilities , obligations , restrictions , remedies or procedures so far as they—
A failure to comply with the first , second or third requirement is a failure to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments .
This section applies if— ( a ) the IPSA determines under section 6(3 ) that a claim is to be refused or that only part of the amount claimed is to be allowed , and ( b ) the member ( after asking the IPSA to reconsider the determination and giving it a reasonable opportunity to do so ) asks the Compliance Officer to review the determination ( or any altered determination resulting from the IPSA 's reconsideration ) .
Where the Commissioner has received an application under this section , he shall either— ( a ) notify the complainant that he has not made any decision under this section as a result of the application and of his grounds for not doing so , or ( b ) serve notice of his decision ( in this Act referred to as a “ decision notice ” ) on the complainant and the public authority .
making payments in respect of some ( but not all ) of the expenses of maintaining the Academy ,
A motion for a resolution under paragraph 1(e ) may be made only with the agreement of the Speaker of the House of Commons .
But— ( a ) the Supreme Court is not bound by any retained EU case law , ( b ) the High Court of Justiciary is not bound by any retained EU case law when— ( i ) sitting as a court of appeal otherwise than in relation to a compatibility issue ( within the meaning given by section 288ZA(2 ) of the Criminal Procedure ( Scotland ) Act 1995 ) or a devolution issue ( within the meaning given by paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to the Scotland Act 1998 ) , or ( ii ) sitting on a reference under section 123(1 ) of the Criminal Procedure ( Scotland ) Act 1995 , and ( c ) no court or tribunal is bound by any retained domestic case law that it would not otherwise be bound by .
Subsection ( 1 ) does not apply to any rights , powers , liabilities , obligations , restrictions , remedies or procedures so far as they— ( a ) form part of domestic law by virtue of section 3 , or ( b ) arise under an EU directive ( including as applied by the EEA agreement ) and are not of a kind recognised by the European Court or any court or tribunal in the United Kingdom in a case decided before exit day ( whether or not as an essential part of the decision in the case ) .
that the complainant has not exhausted any complaints procedure which is provided by the public authority in conformity with the code of practice under section 45 ,
for which a person who has attained the age of twenty - one years ( eighteen in relation to England and Wales ) and has no previous convictions may be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of five years ( or , in England and Wales , might be so sentenced but for the restrictions imposed by section 33 of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 ) .
It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to promote the following of good practice by public authorities and , in particular , so to perform his functions under this Act as to promote the observance by public authorities of—
things which are , or which are not , to be treated as physical features ;
If it appears to the Commissioner that the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act does not conform with that proposed in the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46 , he may give to the authority a recommendation ( in this section referred to as a “ practice recommendation ” ) specifying the steps which ought in his opinion to be taken for promoting such conformity .
Where the price is not determined as mentioned in sub - section ( 1 ) above the buyer must pay a reasonable price .
the disclosure by public authorities of datasets held by them , and
A contract that purports to be made by or on behalf of a company at a time when the company has not been formed has effect , subject to any agreement to the contrary , as one made with the person purporting to act for the company or as agent for it , and he is personally liable on the contract accordingly .
It shall be the duty of every employer to conduct his undertaking in such a way as to ensure , so far as is reasonably practicable , that persons not in his employment who may be affected thereby are not thereby exposed to risks to their health or safety .
In the case of a federated school , the reference in subsection ( 1 ) to the governing body includes a reference to any members of the governing body .
authorising the proprietor to apply to the Secretary of State for a review of those determinations
controlling the keeping and use of explosive or highly flammable or otherwise dangerous substances , and generally preventing the unlawful acquisition , possession and use of such substances ; and
is brought before the end of the usual period for bringing such an appeal , and
Certain sections or subsections of this Act do not apply to a contract to which Chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 applies .
if the Parliament in which this Act is passed is dissolved in that tax year , ignore a person 's membership of the House of Commons in that Parliament , and
For the purposes of section 7 , a person ( “ A ” ) is associated with C if ( disregarding any bribe under consideration ) A is a person who performs services for or on behalf of C.
The Treasury may by order prohibit ring - fenced bodies from—
A reference in this section , section 21 or 22 or an applicable Schedule ( apart from paragraphs 2 to 4 of Schedule 4 ) to a physical feature is a reference to— ( a ) a feature arising from the design or construction of a building , ( b ) a feature of an approach to , exit from or access to a building , ( c ) a fixture or fitting , or furniture , furnishings , materials , equipment or other chattels , in or on premises , or ( d ) any other physical element or quality .
The Speaker of the House of Commons may require the IPSA to pay to members of the Committee appointed under paragraph 1(e ) such remuneration and allowances as the Speaker may determine .
“ Relevant period ” , in relation to a person who is a member of the House of Commons , means the period beginning with the day after the day of the poll for the parliamentary election at which the member was elected and ending with— ( a ) if the person is a member immediately before Parliament is dissolved , the day of the poll for the parliamentary general election which follows the dissolution ; ( b ) otherwise , the day on which the person ceases to be a member .
The second requirement is a requirement , where a physical feature puts a disabled person at a substantial disadvantage in relation to a relevant matter in comparison with persons who are not disabled , to take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to avoid the disadvantage .
the safety of or the absence of risks to health arising from plant or substances in any such premises ;
Any duty of the IPSA to pay an allowance to a member is subject to anything done in relation to the member in the exercise of the disciplinary powers of the House of Commons .
In a contract of sale , other than one to which subsection ( 3 ) below applies , there is an implied term on the part of the seller that in the case of a sale he has a right to sell the goods ,
An order under subsection ( 2 ) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion that allowing ring - fenced bodies to deal in investments as principal in the specified circumstances would not be likely to result in any significant adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services .
adaptation or alteration ,
Before issuing the proposed statement , the regulator must have regard to any representations made to it in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) .
A statement shall be given to a person under section 1 even if his employment ends before the end of the period within which the statement is required to be given .
For the purpose of facilitating the performance by the Public Record Office , the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland and other public authorities of their functions under this Act in relation to records which are public records for the purposes of the Public Records Act 1958 or the Public Records Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1923 , the code may also include guidance as to— ( a ) the practice to be adopted in relation to the transfer of records under section 3(4 ) of the Public Records Act 1958 or section 3 of the Public Records Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1923 , and ( b ) the practice of reviewing records before they are transferred under those provisions .
This Act applies to contracts of sale of goods made on or after ( but not to those made before ) 1 January 1894 .
It is immaterial for the purposes of this section whether the further offence is to be committed on the same occasion as the unauthorised access offence or on any future occasion .
rely on the Convention right or rights concerned in any legal proceedings ,
Subsection ( 1 ) does not apply to an act if— ( a ) as the result of one or more provisions of primary legislation , the authority could not have acted differently ; or ( b ) in the case of one or more provisions of , or made under , primary legislation which can not be read or given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights , the authority was acting so as to give effect to or enforce those provisions .
Subsection ( 2 ) does not prohibit the local authority from providing financial or other assistance in respect of the Academy , including by— ( a ) making payments in respect of some ( but not all ) of the expenses of maintaining the Academy , ( b ) providing premises , goods or services for the Academy , or ( c ) making premises , goods or services available to be used for the purposes of the Academy .
the employee ’s pension rights depend on the terms of a pension scheme established under any provision contained in or having effect under any Act , and
The first requirement is a requirement , where a provision , criterion or practice of A 's puts a disabled person at a substantial disadvantage in relation to a relevant matter in comparison with persons who are not disabled , to take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to avoid the disadvantage .
The rule of law that a father is the natural guardian of his legitimate child is abolished .
An authority or body that falls within subsection ( 1 ) is only a “ public authority ” or “ public body ” for the purposes of the GDPR when performing a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in it .
An order under subsection ( 5 ) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion—
is to be treated as being within paragraph ( a ) unless there is some evidence before the court in the particular proceedings to suggest that involvement of that parent in the child 's life would put the child at risk of suffering harm whatever the form of the involvement .
The IPSA must publish such information as it considers appropriate in respect of— ( a ) each claim made under or by virtue of this section , and ( b ) each payment of an allowance by the IPSA under or by virtue of this section .
Subsection ( 1 ) does not prevent the principle of the supremacy of EU law from applying to a modification made on or after exit day of any enactment or rule of law passed or made before exit day if the application of the principle is consistent with the intention of the modification .
The Treasury must , before the end of the initial period , appoint a panel of at least 5 persons ( “ the review panel ” ) to carry out a review of the operation of the legislation relating to ring - fencing .
it is made in the form prescribed by regulations made by the Lord Chancellor ; and
Whether a stipulation in a contract of sale is a condition , the breach of which may give rise to a right to treat the contract as repudiated , or a warranty , the breach of which may give rise to a claim for damages but not to a right to reject the goods and treat the contract as repudiated , depends in each case on the construction of the contract ; and a stipulation may be a condition , though called a warranty in the contract .
any written constitution , or provision made by or under legislation , applicable to the country or territory concerned , or
But , if the polling day for the previous parliamentary general election—
if the person is a member immediately before Parliament is dissolved , the day of the poll for the parliamentary general election which follows the dissolution ;
at any other time it considers appropriate .
a fixture or fitting , or furniture , furnishings , materials , equipment or other chattels , in or on premises , or
The provisions of this Part shall have effect with a view to—
providing premises , goods or services for the Academy , or
An order under subsection ( 2)(b ) may be made in relation to a class of UK institution only if the Treasury are of the opinion that the exemption conferred by the order would not be likely to have a significant adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services .
Subsection ( 8) applies if the school— ( a ) is a foundation or voluntary school which is designated by order under section 69(3 ) of SSFA 1998 as a school having a particular religious character , and ( b ) is to be converted into an Academy school .
Before a regulator issues a statement under section 210 , the regulator must publish a draft of the proposed statement in the way appearing to the regulator to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of the public .
Before issuing or revising any code under this section , the Minister for the Cabinet Office shall consult the Commissioner .
A reference in this section , section 21 or 22 or an applicable Schedule ( apart from paragraphs 2 to 4 of Schedule 4 ) to a physical feature is a reference to—
a school has a surplus immediately before the conversion date if , at that time , there is an amount made available in respect of the school by a local authority to the school 's governing body ( under section 50 of SSFA 1998 or otherwise ) that has not been spent by the governing body or the head teacher
the period of 14 days after the day on which that motion is passed ends without the House passing a motion in the form set out in subsection ( 5 ) .
In subsection ( 2 ) “ written law ” means law contained in— ( a ) any written constitution , or provision made by or under legislation , applicable to the country or territory concerned , or ( b ) any judicial decision which is so applicable and is evidenced in published written sources .
Accordingly , where a section does not contain such a reference , this Act applies in relation to the contract concerned without such modification of the section .
For the purposes of the GDPR , where personal data is processed only—
consequentially amend this section .
When carrying out functions under the GDPR , the applied GDPR and this Act , the Commissioner must have regard to the importance of securing an appropriate level of protection for personal data , taking account of the interests of data subjects , controllers and others and matters of general public interest .
The person with whom any such arrangement is made may himself be a person who already has parental responsibility for the child concerned .
for any public agency or public enterprise of that country or territory ( or subdivision ) , or
Any rights , powers , liabilities , obligations , restrictions , remedies and procedures which , immediately before exit day— ( a ) are recognised and available in domestic law by virtue of section 2(1 ) of the European Communities Act 1972 , and ( b ) are enforced , allowed and followed accordingly , continue on and after exit day to be recognised and available in domestic law ( and to be enforced , allowed and followed accordingly ) .
where the employment is not intended to be permanent , the period for which it is expected to continue or , if it is for a fixed term , the date when it is to end ,
about the effect of any such review on the amount required to be paid by the local authority to the proprietor ( including provision requiring repayment of sums by the proprietor or the payment of additional sums by the local authority )
a court or tribunal , and
Where before the end of the period of two months after the beginning of an employee ’s employment the employee is to begin to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month , the statement under section 1 shall be given to him not later than the time when he leaves the United Kingdom in order to begin so to work .
If a parliamentary general election is to take place as provided for by subsection ( 1 ) or ( 3 ) , the polling day for the election is to be the day appointed by Her Majesty by proclamation on the recommendation of the Prime Minister ( and , accordingly , the appointed day replaces the day which would otherwise have been the polling day for the next election determined under section 1 ) .
about other matters within the scope of his functions under this Act ,
the decision notice must specify the steps which must be taken by the authority for complying with that requirement and the period within which they must be taken .
Direct EU legislation , so far as operative immediately before exit day , forms part of domestic law on and after exit day .
Regulations may make provision as to— ( a ) circumstances in which it is , or in which it is not , reasonable for a person of a prescribed description to have to take steps of a prescribed description ; ( b ) what is , or what is not , a provision , criterion or practice ; ( c ) things which are , or which are not , to be treated as physical features ; ( d ) things which are , or which are not , to be treated as alterations of physical features ; ( e ) things which are , or which are not , to be treated as auxiliary aids .
to impair the operation of any such program or the reliability of any such data ; or
Any question as to the validity , meaning or effect of any retained EU law is to be decided , so far as that law is unmodified on or after exit day and so far as they are relevant to it—
The fact that a person is able to retain the information relevant to a decision for a short period only does not prevent him from being regarded as able to make the decision .
A contract of sale of goods is a contract by which the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a money consideration , called the price .
the EU , an EU entity , a member State or a public authority in a member State , which no longer exist or are no longer appropriate ,
For the purposes of subsection ( 2 ) , if the treatment of a woman is in implementation of a decision taken in the protected period , the treatment is to be regarded as occurring in that period ( even if the implementation is not until after the end of that period ) .
But this section does not apply if an Academy order under section 4(A1 ) or ( 1)(b ) has effect in respect of the school .
appoint the day for the first meeting of the new Parliament ;
A person ( A ) who is subject to a duty to make reasonable adjustments is not ( subject to express provision to the contrary ) entitled to require a disabled person , in relation to whom A is required to comply with the duty , to pay to any extent A 's costs of complying with the duty .
If the appropriate regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a relevant requirement imposed on the person , it may impose on him a penalty , in respect of the contravention , of such amount as it considers appropriate .
A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable—
a member of the House of Lords .
he causes a computer to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any computer , or to enable any such access to be secured
incapacity for work due to sickness or injury , including any provision for sick pay , and
This section has effect for the purposes of the application of Part 5 ( work ) to the protected characteristic of pregnancy and maternity .
Where a child ’s father and mother were married to each other at the time of his birth , they shall each have parental responsibility for the child .
it may make a declaration of that incompatibility .
A person is not to be regarded as unable to understand the information relevant to a decision if he is able to understand an explanation of it given to him in a way that is appropriate to his circumstances ( using simple language , visual aids or any other means ) .
are recognised and available in domestic law by virtue of section 2(1 ) of the European Communities Act 1972 , and
The statement shall contain particulars of—
A person who has been appointed under paragraph 1(e ) may not be appointed under paragraph 1(e ) again .
The following provisions of this section apply for the interpretation of section 4 above .
The protected period , in relation to a woman 's pregnancy , begins when the pregnancy begins , and ends—
For the purposes of subsection ( 3)(b ) , the written law applicable to F is— ( a ) where the performance of the functions of F which P intends to influence would be subject to the law of any part of the United Kingdom , the law of that part of the United Kingdom , ( b ) where paragraph ( a ) does not apply and F is an official or agent of a public international organisation , the applicable written rules of that organisation , ( c ) where paragraphs ( a ) and ( b ) do not apply , the law of the country or territory in relation to which F is a foreign public official so far as that law is contained in— ( i ) any written constitution , or provision made by or under legislation , applicable to the country or territory concerned , or ( ii ) any judicial decision which is so applicable and is evidenced in published written sources .
A court or tribunal determining a question which has arisen in connection with a Convention right must take into account any—
For the purposes of subsection ( 1)— ( a ) the “ proposed proprietor of the Academy ” is the person with whom the Secretary of State proposes to enter or has entered into Academy arrangements in respect of the school ; ( b ) a school is “ causing concern ” if it is eligible for intervention within the meaning of Part 4 of EIA 2006 .
This section applies if—
The Secretary of State shall issue , and may from time to time revise , a code of practice providing guidance to relevant authorities as to the practice which it would , in his opinion , be desirable for them to follow in connection with the keeping , management and destruction of their records .
does not contain any functions or restrictions which—
If an Academy agreement makes provision for payments in respect of capital expenditure , the agreement may provide for the repayment to the Secretary of State , in circumstances specified in the agreement , of sums determined in accordance with the agreement .
A reference in this section , section 21 or 22 or an applicable Schedule to an auxiliary aid includes a reference to an auxiliary service .
consider whether the carrying on of that activity by a ring - fenced body would make it more likely that the failure of the body would have an adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services .
are exercisable by a person under this Act where he reasonably believes that another person lacks capacity .
A regulator may at any time alter or replace a statement issued by it under this section .
Subject to this and any other Act , a contract of sale may be made in writing ( either with or without seal ) , or by word of mouth , or partly in writing and partly by word of mouth , or may be implied from the conduct of the parties .
by another person at R 's request or with R 's assent or acquiescence .
If the protected characteristic is sexual orientation , the fact that one person ( whether or not the person referred to as B ) is married to a person of the same sex while another is married to a person of the opposite sex is not a material difference between the circumstances relating to each case .
EU - derived domestic legislation , as it has effect in domestic law immediately before exit day , continues to have effect in domestic law on and after exit day .
This subsection applies to amounts which a member ( under section 9(8 ) or otherwise ) has agreed to repay , in respect of amounts paid to the member under the MPs ' allowances scheme that should not have been allowed .
anyone named by the person as someone to be consulted on the matter in question or on matters of that kind ,
the extent to which that contravention was deliberate or reckless ; and
If the Tribunal allows the appeal ( in whole or in part ) it may—
The Commissioner shall arrange for the dissemination in such form and manner as he considers appropriate of such information as it may appear to him expedient to give to the public—
Where a company 's articles : on formation contain provision for entrenchment ; are amended so as to include such provision ; or are altered by order of a court or other authority so as to restrict or exclude the power of the company to amend its articles , the company must give notice of that fact to the registrar .
Subsection ( 2 ) applies if a person is for any part of a tax year—
If it appears to the registrar that a company has failed to comply with any enactment requiring it— ( a ) to send to the registrar a document making or evidencing an alteration in the company 's articles , or ( b ) to send to the registrar a copy of the company 's articles as amended , the registrar may give notice to the company requiring it to comply .
so far as is reasonably practicable as regards any place of work under the employer ’s control , the maintenance of it in a condition that is safe and without risks to health and the provision and maintenance of means of access to and egress from it that are safe and without such risks ;
This section applies where a company 's articles are subject— ( a ) to provision for entrenchment , or ( b ) to an order of a court or other authority restricting or excluding the company 's power to amend the articles .
whether R requests , agrees to receive or accepts ( or is to request , agree to receive or accept ) the advantage directly or through a third party ,
A relevant decision of the court is a decision made by an order under section 16(2)(a ) in relation to a matter concerning P 's personal welfare .
Subsection ( 4 ) does not apply to a contract to which Chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 applies ( but see the provision made about such contracts in sections 19 to 22 of that Act ) .
the person on whom the obligation to process the data is imposed by the enactment ( or , if different , one of the enactments ) is the controller .
is a foundation or voluntary school which is designated by order under section 69(3 ) of SSFA 1998 as a school having a particular religious character , and
Without prejudice to the generality of an employer ’s duty under the preceding subsection , the matters to which that duty extends include in particular— ( a ) the provision and maintenance of plant and systems of work that are , so far as is reasonably practicable , safe and without risks to health ; ( b ) arrangements for ensuring , so far as is reasonably practicable , safety and absence of risks to health in connection with the use , handling , storage and transport of articles and substances ; ( c ) the provision of such information , instruction , training and supervision as is necessary to ensure , so far as is reasonably practicable , the health and safety at work of his employees ; ( d ) so far as is reasonably practicable as regards any place of work under the employer ’s control , the maintenance of it in a condition that is safe and without risks to health and the provision and maintenance of means of access to and egress from it that are safe and without such risks ; ( e ) the provision and maintenance of a working environment for his employees that is , so far as is reasonably practicable , safe , without risks to health , and adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for their welfare at work .
for the purpose of determining whether the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act conforms with that proposed in the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46 ,
holding in specified circumstances shares or voting power in companies of a specified description .
But in applying this section to the tax year 2010 - 11— ( a ) if the Parliament in which this Act is passed is dissolved in that tax year , ignore a person 's membership of the House of Commons in that Parliament , and ( b ) in any event , ignore a person 's membership of the House of Lords at any time before the end of the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which section 42 comes into force .
the company is indemnified for any loss or damage resulting from the transaction , or
any such provision requires the body or authority to give to a new employee information concerning the employee ’s pension rights or the determination of questions affecting those rights .
For the purposes of the GDPR , the following ( and only the following ) are “ public authorities ” and “ public bodies ” under the law of the United Kingdom— ( a ) a public authority as defined by the Freedom of Information Act 2000 , ( b ) a Scottish public authority as defined by the Freedom of Information ( Scotland ) Act 2002 ( asp 13 ) , and ( c ) an authority or body specified or described by the Secretary of State in regulations , subject to subsections ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) .
A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable— ( a ) on summary conviction in England and Wales , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both ; ( b ) on summary conviction in Scotland , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both ; ( c ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine or to both .
anyone claiming through or under the seller or that third person otherwise than under a charge or encumbrance disclosed or known to the buyer before the contract is made .
where paragraphs ( a ) and ( b ) do not apply , the law of the country or territory in relation to which F is a foreign public official so far as that law is contained in—
The code of practice must , in particular , include provision relating to— ( a ) the provision of advice and assistance by public authorities to persons who propose to make , or have made , requests for information to them , ( b ) the transfer of requests by one public authority to another public authority by which the information requested is or may be held , ( c ) consultation with persons to whom the information requested relates or persons whose interests are likely to be affected by the disclosure of information , ( d ) the inclusion in contracts entered into by public authorities of terms relating to the disclosure of information , ( da ) the disclosure by public authorities of datasets held by them , and ( e ) the provision by public authorities of procedures for dealing with complaints about the handling by them of requests for information .
In relation to the second requirement , a reference in this section or an applicable Schedule to avoiding a substantial disadvantage includes a reference to— ( a ) removing the physical feature in question , ( b ) altering it , or ( c ) providing a reasonable means of avoiding it .
entering into transactions of a specified kind or with persons falling within a specified class ;
that the accused was in the home country concerned at the time when he did the act which caused the computer to perform the function ; or
gives full consideration in money or money 's worth in relation to the act in question and does not know ( as the case may be)—
A declaration under this section ( “ a declaration of incompatibility”)— ( a ) does not affect the validity , continuing operation or enforcement of the provision in respect of which it is given ; and ( b ) is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made .
whether the person against whom action is to be taken is an individual .
which it would be reasonable to regard as relevant .
A statement under section 1 shall include a note—
removing the physical feature in question ,
Once Parliament dissolves , the Lord Chancellor and , in relation to Northern Ireland , the Secretary of State have the authority to have the writs for the election sealed and issued ( see rule 3 in Schedule 1 to the Representation of the People Act 1983 ) .
No parental responsibility agreement shall have effect for the purposes of this Act unless— ( a ) it is made in the form prescribed by regulations made by the Lord Chancellor ; and ( b ) where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such agreements must be recorded , it is recorded in the prescribed manner .
He must , so far as reasonably practicable , permit and encourage the person to participate , or to improve his ability to participate , as fully as possible in any act done for him and any decision affecting him .
the disclosure of datasets in an electronic form which is capable of re - use ,
by or under the responsibility of a health professional or a social work professional , or
there is another person who is designated in writing by the Director acting personally as the person who is authorised to exercise any such function when the Director is unavailable .
The Compliance Officer must give the IPSA a statement of any decision under subsection ( 2)(b ) , and may include a statement of the Compliance Officer 's findings about the way in which the IPSA has dealt with the claim .
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 below applies in relation to a contract made before 22 April 1967 or ( in the application of this Act to Northern Ireland ) 28 July 1967 .
More than one person may have parental responsibility for the same child at the same time .
suspend , for such period as it considers appropriate , any permission which the person has to carry on a regulated activity ; or
any collective agreements which directly affect the terms and conditions of the employment including , where the employer is not a party , the persons by whom they were made , and
about the time limits for doing anything required or permitted to be done under this section or the regulations
the access he intends to secure , or to enable to be secured , is unauthorised ; and
makes provision for , or in connection with , reciprocal arrangements between—
by omitting conditions or safeguards added by regulations under this section , and
R requests , agrees to receive or accepts a financial or other advantage , and
An order under subsection ( 4 ) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion that the making of the order is necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services .
Where there is an agreement to sell goods on the terms that the price is to be fixed by the valuation of a third party , and he can not or does not make the valuation , the agreement is avoided ; but if the goods or any part of them have been delivered to and appropriated by the buyer he must pay a reasonable price for them .
A lack of capacity can not be established merely by reference to— ( a ) a person 's age or appearance , or ( b ) a condition of his , or an aspect of his behaviour , which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity .
ceases to be a member of that House when—
Subsection ( 3 ) does not prevent the validity , meaning or effect of any retained EU law which has been modified on or after exit day from being decided as provided for in that subsection if doing so is consistent with the intention of the modifications .
the ascertainable wishes and feelings of the child concerned ( considered in the light of his age and understanding )
The IPSA must review the current determination ( and make a new determination as appropriate)—
If the statement differs from the draft published under subsection ( 1 ) in a way which is , in the opinion of the regulator , significant , the regulator must ( in addition to complying with subsection ( 4 ) ) publish details of the difference .
For the purposes of this section and section 42 a person is a member of the House of Lords if the person is entitled to receive writs of summons to attend that House .
A maintained school is “ converted into ” an Academy if Academy arrangements are entered into in relation to the school or an educational institution that replaces it .
Where a child ’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his birth , the father shall acquire parental responsibility for the child if— ( a ) he becomes registered as the child ’s father under any of the enactments specified in subsection ( 1A ) ; ( b ) he and the child ’s mother make an agreement ( a “ parental responsibility agreement ” ) providing for him to have parental responsibility for the child ; or ( c ) the court , on his application , orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child .
but that is subject to any rule imposing a stricter time limit in relation to the procedure in question .
holds a legislative , administrative or judicial position of any kind , whether appointed or elected , of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom ( or any subdivision of such a country or territory ) ,
opinion of the Commission given in a report adopted under Article 31 of the Convention ,
Where necessaries are sold and delivered to a minor or to a person who by reason of mental incapacity or drunkenness is incompetent to contract , he must pay a reasonable price for them .
The Secretary of State may by regulations prescribe model articles of association for companies
So far as it is possible to do so , primary legislation and subordinate legislation must be read and given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights .
The provisions of this Part relating to the making of health and safety regulations and the preparation and approval of codes of practice shall in particular have effect with a view to enabling the enactments specified in the third column of Schedule 1 and the regulations , orders and other instruments in force under those enactments to be progressively replaced by a system of regulations and approved codes of practice operating in combination with the other provisions of this Part and designed to maintain or improve the standards of health , safety and welfare established by or under those enactments .
This section—
Subject to section 35A below where a contract of sale is not severable and the buyer has accepted the goods or part of them , the breach of a condition to be fulfilled by the seller can only be treated as a breach of warranty , and not as a ground for rejecting the goods and treating the contract as repudiated , unless there is an express or implied term of the contract to that effect .
A practice recommendation must be given in writing and must refer to the particular provisions of the code of practice with which , in the Commissioner ’s opinion , the public authority ’s practice does not conform .
A company must have articles of association prescribing regulations for the company .
he and the child ’s mother make an agreement ( a “ parental responsibility agreement ” ) providing for him to have parental responsibility for the child ; or
but only if he is ( or would be ) a victim of the unlawful act .
The form of motion for the purposes of subsection ( 1)(a ) is—
For the purposes of this section a person—
A person who has been made a party to criminal proceedings ( other than in Scotland ) as the result of a notice under subsection ( 2 ) may , with leave , appeal to the Supreme Court against any declaration of incompatibility made in the proceedings .
The protected period , in relation to a woman 's pregnancy , begins when the pregnancy begins , and ends— ( a ) if she has the right to ordinary and additional maternity leave , at the end of the additional maternity leave period or ( if earlier ) when she returns to work after the pregnancy ; ( b ) if she does not have that right , at the end of the period of 2 weeks beginning with the end of the pregnancy .
she gives birth to a living child , or
applies to primary legislation and subordinate legislation whenever enacted ;
the type of activities carried out by the undertaking , where those activities are carried out or any other feature of the undertaking ;
the Director concerned is unavailable , and
In relation to contracts made on certain dates , this Act applies subject to the modification of certain of its sections as mentioned in Schedule 1 below .
In this Act “ parental responsibility ” means all the rights , duties , powers , responsibilities and authority which by law a parent of a child has in relation to the child and his property .
The person making the determination must consider all the relevant circumstances and , in particular , take the following steps .
In relation to an offence under section 1 , 3 , 3ZA or 3A , where the accused was in a country outside the United Kingdom at the time of the act constituting the offence there is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction if—
to account to the company for any gain he has made directly or indirectly by the transaction ,
He must consider , so far as is reasonably ascertainable— ( a ) the person 's past and present wishes and feelings ( and , in particular , any relevant written statement made by him when he had capacity ) , ( b ) the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision if he had capacity , and ( c ) the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so .
On a comparison of cases for the purposes of section 13 , 14 , or 19 there must be no material difference between the circumstances relating to each case .
vary a suspension or restriction so as to reduce the period for which it has effect or otherwise to limit its effect .
serve notice of his decision ( in this Act referred to as a “ decision notice ” ) on the complainant and the public authority .
In subsection ( 1)— “ permission ” means any permission that the authorised person has , whether given ( or treated as given ) by the FCA or the PRA or conferred by any provision of this Act
An order under subsection ( 5 ) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion— ( a ) that an interruption of the provision of services provided in the United Kingdom in the carrying on of the regulated activity concerned could adversely affect the stability of the UK financial system or of a significant part of that system , and ( b ) that the continuity of the provision of those services can more effectively be protected by treating the activity as a core activity .
what is , or what is not , a provision , criterion or practice ;
He must consider— ( a ) whether it is likely that the person will at some time have capacity in relation to the matter in question , and ( b ) if it appears likely that he will , when that is likely to be .
that any computer containing any program or data to which the accused by doing that act secured or intended to secure unauthorised access , or enabled or intended to enable unauthorised access to be secured , was in the home country concerned at that time .
but if the goods or any part of them have been delivered to and appropriated by the buyer he must pay a reasonable price for them .
Where a contract of sale is subject to a condition to be fulfilled by the seller , the buyer may waive the condition , or may elect to treat the breach of the condition as a breach of warranty and not as a ground for treating the contract as repudiated .
sub - paragraphs ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) of Article 14(3 ) of the Births and Deaths Registration ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1976 .
This subsection applies if the person intends by doing the act— ( a ) to impair the operation of any computer ; ( b ) to prevent or hinder access to any program or data held in any computer ; or ( c ) to impair the operation of any such program or the reliability of any such data ; or ( d ) to enable any of the things mentioned in paragraphs ( a ) to ( c ) above to be done .
for purposes for which it is required by an enactment to be processed , and
if the motion is passed on a division , the number of members who vote in favour of the motion is a number equal to or greater than two thirds of the number of seats in the House ( including vacant seats ) .
After a statement under section 205 is published , the regulator concerned must send a copy of it to the authorised person and to any person on whom a copy of the decision notice was given under section 393(4 ) .
If the protected characteristic is age , A does not discriminate against B if A can show A 's treatment of B to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim .
If the company complies with the notice within the specified time , no criminal proceedings may be brought in respect of the failure to comply with the enactment mentioned in subsection ( 1 ) .
In subsection ( 2A ) “ parent ” means parent of the child concerned ; and , for the purposes of that subsection , a parent of the child concerned— ( a ) is within this paragraph if that parent can be involved in the child 's life in a way that does not put the child at risk of suffering harm ; and ( b ) is to be treated as being within paragraph ( a ) unless there is some evidence before the court in the particular proceedings to suggest that involvement of that parent in the child 's life would put the child at risk of suffering harm whatever the form of the involvement .
A person is guilty of an offence under this section if he commits an offence under section 1 above ( “ the unauthorised access offence ” ) with intent— ( a ) to commit an offence to which this section applies ; or ( b ) to facilitate the commission of such an offence ( whether by himself or by any other person ) ; and the offence he intends to commit or facilitate is referred to below in this section as the further offence .
A person ( A ) discriminates against a woman if A treats her unfavourably because of a pregnancy of hers .
Except in such cases as may be prescribed , it shall be the duty of every employer to prepare and as often as may be appropriate revise a written statement of his general policy with respect to the health and safety at work of his employees and the organisation and arrangements for the time being in force for carrying out that policy , and to bring the statement and any revision of it to the notice of all of his employees .
An Academy agreement in respect of an Academy school or an alternative provision Academy must include provision allowing the Secretary of State to terminate the agreement if— ( a ) the Academy is coasting , and ( b ) the Secretary of State has notified the proprietor that it is coasting .
A person ( A ) discriminates against a woman if , in the protected period in relation to a pregnancy of hers , A treats her unfavourably—
A declaration under this section ( “ a declaration of incompatibility”)—
An early parliamentary general election is to take place if— ( a ) the House of Commons passes a motion in the form set out in subsection ( 2 ) , and ( b ) if the motion is passed on a division , the number of members who vote in favour of the motion is a number equal to or greater than two thirds of the number of seats in the House ( including vacant seats ) .
the date on which the employee ’s period of continuous employment began ( taking into account any employment with a previous employer which counts towards that period ) .
Subject to that , in deciding whether and , if so , how to exercise their powers under subsection ( 2)(b ) , the Treasury must have regard to the desirability of minimising any adverse effect that the ring - fencing provisions might be expected to have on competition in the market for services provided in the course of carrying on core activities , including any adverse effect on the ease with which new entrants can enter the market .
the person or persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed .
A determination may include a formula or other mechanism for adjusting salaries from time to time .
may ( subject to the provisions of this Act ) do what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the child ’s welfare .
and the offence he intends to commit or facilitate is referred to below in this section as the further offence .
section 4B.
If the protected characteristic is sexual orientation , the fact that one person ( whether or not the person referred to as B ) is a civil partner while another is married to a person of the opposite sex is not a material difference between the circumstances relating to each case .
the father shall have parental responsibility for the child if he has acquired it ( and has not ceased to have it ) in accordance with the provisions of this Act .
In the circumstances mentioned in subsection ( 4 ) , a court shall have regard in particular to— ( a ) the ascertainable wishes and feelings of the child concerned ( considered in the light of his age and understanding ) ; ( b ) his physical , emotional and educational needs ; ( c ) the likely effect on him of any change in his circumstances ; ( d ) his age , sex , background and any characteristics of his which the court considers relevant ; ( e ) any harm which he has suffered or is at risk of suffering ; ( f ) how capable each of his parents , and any other person in relation to whom the court considers the question to be relevant , is of meeting his needs ; ( g ) the range of powers available to the court under this Act in the proceedings in question .
Subsection ( 1 ) does not apply to rules , disciplinary decisions , decisions to dismiss grievances or procedures relating to health or safety at work .
Despite section 568(1 ) of EA 1996 ( orders to be made by statutory instrument ) ( as applied by section 17(4 ) of this Act ) the power of the Secretary of State to make an Academy order is not required to be exercised by statutory instrument .
retrieval , consultation or use ,
In the case of a company limited by guarantee and not having a share capital any provision in the company 's articles , or in any resolution of the company , purporting to give a person a right to participate in the divisible profits of the company otherwise than as a member is void .
The circumstances referred to are that the court is considering whether to make an order under section 4(1)(c ) or ( 2A ) or 4ZA(1)(c ) or ( 5 ) ( parental responsibility of parent other than mother ) .
it provides education for children who are wholly or mainly drawn from the area in which it is situated .
The Treasury may by order provide that any other specified services provided in the course of carrying on the core activity of accepting deposits are also core services .
the title of the job which the employee is employed to do or a brief description of the work for which he is employed ,
involve the EU , an EU entity , a member State or a public authority in a member State , or
Except as provided below in this section , it is immaterial for the purposes of any offence under section 1 , 3 or 3ZA above—
a reference to impairing , preventing or hindering something includes a reference to doing so temporarily .
In such cases as may be prescribed , it shall be the duty of every employer and every self - employed person , in the prescribed circumstances and in the prescribed manner , to give to persons ( not being his employees ) who may be affected by the way in which he conducts his undertaking the prescribed information about such aspects of the way in which he conducts his undertaking as might affect their health or safety .
Evidence of any judgment , decision , declaration or opinion of which account may have to be taken under this section is to be given in proceedings before any court or tribunal in such manner as may be provided by rules .
Those purposes are— ( a ) to secure an appropriate degree of protection for the depositors concerned , or ( b ) to protect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of services provided in the course of carrying on the regulated activity of accepting deposits .
he may serve the authority with a notice ( in this Act referred to as “ an information notice ” ) requiring it , within such time as is specified in the notice , to furnish the Commissioner , in such form as may be so specified , with such information relating to the application , to compliance with Part I or to conformity with the code of practice as is so specified .
The statement of compliance required is a statement certifying that the amendment has been made in accordance with the company 's articles and , where relevant , any applicable order of a court or other authority .
A sale of goods is not prevented from being a sale by description by reason only that , being exposed for sale or hire , they are selected by the buyer .
A relevant appeal is— ( a ) an appeal under subsection ( 6 ) brought before the end of the period mentioned in subsection ( 7 ) , or ( b ) a further appeal in relation to the Compliance Officer 's decision which— ( i ) is brought before the end of the usual period for bringing such an appeal , and ( ii ) is an appeal against the determination of an appeal which was itself a relevant appeal .
The Minister for the Cabinet Office shall issue , and may from time to time revise , a code of practice providing guidance to public authorities as to the practice which it would , in his opinion , be desirable for them to follow in connection with the discharge of the authorities’ functions under Part I.
A restriction may , in particular , be imposed so as to require the person concerned to take , or refrain from taking , specified action .
