In this section, “ the appropriate religious body ”, in relation to a school, means—
whether persons who may be affected by the conduct of the undertaking, other than the self-employed person (or his employees), may thereby be exposed to risks to their health or safety.
For the purposes of subsection (1), a provision, criterion or practice is discriminatory in relation to a relevant protected characteristic of B's if— (a) A applies, or would apply, it to persons with whom B does not share the characteristic, (b) it puts, or would put, persons with whom B shares the characteristic at a particular disadvantage when compared with persons with whom B does not share it, (c) it puts, or would put, B at that disadvantage, and (d) A cannot show it to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.
restriction, erasure or destruction,
but does not include either House of Parliament or a person exercising functions in connection with proceedings in Parliament.
This section has effect for imposing on persons duties in relation to those who— (a) are not their employees; but (b) use non-domestic premises made available to them as a place of work or as a place where they may use plant or substances provided for their use there, and applies to premises so made available and other non-domestic premises used in connection with them.
to secure an appropriate degree of protection for the depositors concerned, or
A description of undertaking included in regulations under subsection (2) may be framed by reference to— (a) the type of activities carried out by the undertaking, where those activities are carried out or any other feature of the undertaking; (b) whether persons who may be affected by the conduct of the undertaking, other than the self-employed person (or his employees), may thereby be exposed to risks to their health or safety.
D may deprive P of his liberty if, by doing so, D is giving effect to a relevant decision of the court.
Articles of association registered by a company must be contained in a single document, and be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively.
controlling the emission into the atmosphere of noxious or offensive substances from premises of any class prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph.
For the purposes of this section, the day on which a woman gives birth is the day on which— (a) she gives birth to a living child, or (b) she gives birth to a dead child (more than 24 weeks of the pregnancy having passed).
withdraw a suspension or restriction; or
Provision of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(da) may, in particular, include provision relating to—
the IPSA determines under section 6(3) that a claim is to be refused or that only part of the amount claimed is to be allowed, and
“Data subject” means the identified or identifiable living individual to whom personal data relates.
A cannot show it to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.
he knows at the time when he causes the computer to perform the function that that is the case.
The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not entitle him to act in any way which would be incompatible with any order made with respect to the child under this Act.
the scale or rate of remuneration or the method of calculating remuneration,
Where the determination relates to life-sustaining treatment he must not, in considering whether the treatment is in the best interests of the person concerned, be motivated by a desire to bring about his death.
any deputy appointed for the person by the court,
If the regulator issues the proposed statement it must publish an account, in general terms, of— (a) the representations made to it in accordance with subsection (2); and (b) its response to them.
its effect is not reproduced in an enactment to which section 2(1) applies, or
ring-fenced bodies (see section 142A)
In case 1 it does not matter whether the person to whom the advantage is offered, promised or given is the same person as the person who is to perform, or has performed, the function or activity concerned.
The goods which form the subject of a contract of sale may be either existing goods, owned or possessed by the seller, or goods to be manufactured or acquired by him after the making of the contract of sale, in this Act called future goods.
The price in a contract of sale may be fixed by the contract, or may be left to be fixed in a manner agreed by the contract, or may be determined by the course of dealing between the parties.
Subject to section 8 below, where— (a) any such link does in fact exist in the case of an offence under section 1 above; and (b) commission of that offence is alleged in proceedings for an offence under section 2 above; section 2 above shall apply as if anything the accused intended to do or facilitate in any place outside the home country concerned which would be an offence to which section 2 applies if it took place in the home country concerned were the offence in question.
the Secretary of State agrees to make payments to the other party in consideration of those undertakings.
order the IPSA to make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to that decision
Any rights, powers, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, remedies and procedures which, immediately before exit day—
The Secretary of State may by regulations—
but does not include any enactment contained in the European Communities Act 1972.
When the scheme (or revision) is laid, the IPSA must publish in a way it considers appropriate—
“Relevant period”, in relation to a person who is a member of the House of Commons, means the period beginning with the day after the day of the poll for the parliamentary election at which the member was elected and ending with—
The enactments referred to in subsection (1)(a) are— (a) paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 10(1) and of section 10A(1) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953; (b) paragraphs (a), (b)(i) and (c) of section 18(1), and sections 18(2)(b) and 20(1)(a) of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965; and (c) sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article 14(3) of the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976.
ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is carried on in a way that avoids any adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services,
have regard to the risks to which a ring-fenced body would be exposed if it carried on the activity concerned, and
in the case of one or more provisions of, or made under, primary legislation which cannot be read or given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights, the authority was acting so as to give effect to or enforce those provisions.
to impair the operation of any computer
If a regulator decides— (a) to publish a statement under section 205 (whether or not in the terms proposed), (b) to impose a penalty under section 206 (whether or not of the amount roposed), or (c) to suspend a permission or impose a restriction under section 206A (whether or not in the manner proposed), it must without delay give the authorised person concerned a decision notice.
Case 2 is where— (a) P offers, promises or gives a financial or other advantage to another person, and (b) P knows or believes that the acceptance of the advantage would itself constitute the improper performance of a relevant function or activity.
Capacity to buy and sell is regulated by the general law concerning capacity to contract and to transfer and acquire property.
any other physical element or quality.
The Minister for the Cabinet Office shall lay before each House of Parliament any code or revised code made under this section.
less favourable treatment of a woman includes less favourable treatment of her because she is breast-feeding;
The duty of the IPSA to pay a salary to a member is subject to anything done in relation to the member in the exercise of the disciplinary powers of the House of Commons.
The member may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against a decision of the Compliance Officer under subsection (2)(b).
that the application has been withdrawn or abandoned.
a feature of an approach to, exit from or access to a building,
entitlement to holidays, including public holidays, and holiday pay (the particulars given being sufficient to enable the employee’s entitlement, including any entitlement to accrued holiday pay on the termination of employment, to be precisely calculated),
The regulated activity of dealing in investments as principal (whether carried on in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) is an excluded activity unless it is carried on in circumstances specified by the Treasury by order.
There may be a contract for the sale of goods the acquisition of which by the seller depends on a contingency which may or may not happen.
An early parliamentary general election is to take place if—
It shall be the duty of every employer to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare at work of all his employees.
subsection (3) has effect as if for “fifth” there were substituted “fourth”.
to facilitate the commission of such an offence (whether by himself or by any other person);
A Minister of the Crown may by regulations make such provision as the Minister considers appropriate to prevent, remedy or mitigate— (a) any failure of retained EU law to operate effectively, or (b) any other deficiency in retained EU law, arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU.
alignment or combination, or
the request, agreement or acceptance itself constitutes the improper performance by R of a relevant function or activity.
In a contract of sale, other than one to which subsection (3) below applies, there is an implied term on the part of the seller that in the case of a sale he has a right to sell the goods, and in the case of an agreement to sell he will have such a right at the time when the property is to pass.
This is in addition to any liability to criminal proceedings in respect of the failure mentioned in subsection (1).
A statutory instrument containing an order under subsection (5) may not be made unless a draft has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.
Under the law of England and Wales or Northern Ireland a contract may be made— (a) by a company, by writing under its common seal, or (b) on behalf of a company, by a person acting under its authority, express or implied.
an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data or an online identifier, or
If the appropriate regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a relevant requirement imposed on the person, it may— (a) suspend, for such period as it considers appropriate, any permission which the person has to carry on a regulated activity; or (b) impose, for such period as it considers appropriate, such limitations or other restrictions in relation to the carrying on of a regulated activity by the person as it considers appropriate.
is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made.
The transaction ceases to be voidable if— (a) restitution of any money or other asset which was the subject matter of the transaction is no longer possible, or (b) the company is indemnified for any loss or damage resulting from the transaction, or (c) rights acquired bona fide for value and without actual notice of the directors' exceeding their powers by a person who is not party to the transaction would be affected by the avoidance, or (d) the transaction is affirmed by the company.
securing the health, safety and welfare of persons at work;
Where a person has, by virtue of any contract or tenancy, an obligation of any extent in relation to— (a) the maintenance or repair of any premises to which this section applies or any means of access thereto or egress therefrom; or (b) the safety of or the absence of risks to health arising from plant or substances in any such premises; that person shall be treated, for the purposes of subsection (2) above, as being a person who has control of the matters to which his obligation extends.
specifying any procedure applicable to the taking of disciplinary decisions relating to the employee, or to a decision to dismiss the employee, or referring the employee to the provisions of a document specifying such a procedure which is reasonably accessible to the employee,
In relation to the matters mentioned in subsection (2), the continuity objective is: protecting the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services (see section 142C).
“Relevant circumstances” are those— (a) of which the person making the determination is aware, and (b) which it would be reasonable to regard as relevant.
Proceedings under subsection (1)(a) must be brought before the end of—
The circumstances are that— (a) the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge a section 8 order, and the making, variation or discharge of the order is opposed by any party to the proceedings; or (b) the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge a special guardianship order or an order under Part IV.
Each regulator's policy with respect to the imposition of penalties, suspensions or restrictions under this Part must include policy with respect to their imposition in relation to conduct which constitutes or may constitute an offence by virtue of section 23(1A) (authorised persons carrying on credit-related regulated activities otherwise than in accordance with permission).
the period for which he is to work outside the United Kingdom,
The following are core services— (a) facilities for the accepting of deposits or other payments into an account which is provided in the course of carrying on the core activity of accepting deposits; (b) facilities for withdrawing money or making payments from such an account; (c) overdraft facilities in connection with such an account.
In subsection (5) references to the client of a professional legal adviser include references to any person representing such a client.
by means by which it is required by an enactment to be processed,
For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) in relation to a matter particulars of which are included or referred to in a statement given under section 1 otherwise than in instalments, the material date is the date to which the statement relates, (b) in relation to a matter particulars of which— (i) are included or referred to in an instalment of a statement given under section 1, or (ii) are required by section 2(4) to be included in a single document but are not included in an instalment of a statement given under section 1 which does include other particulars to which that provision applies,the material date is the date to which the instalment relates, and (c) in relation to any other matter, the material date is the date by which a statement under section 1 is required to be given.
the giving of permission for datasets to be re-used,
The draft must be accompanied by notice that representations about the proposal may be made to the regulator within a specified time.
specifying any disciplinary rules applicable to the employee or referring the employee to the provisions of a document specifying such rules which is reasonably accessible to the employee,
“Filing system” means any structured set of personal data which is accessible according to specific criteria, whether held by automated means or manually and whether centralised, decentralised or dispersed on a functional or geographical basis.
The rights referred to in subsection (2) include, in particular, the right of the guardian to receive or recover in his own name, for the benefit of the child, property of whatever description and wherever situated which the child is entitled to receive or recover.
Before a maintained school in England is converted into an Academy, the school's governing body must consult such persons as they think appropriate about whether the conversion should take place.
to obtain or retain business for C, or
the practice to be adopted in relation to the transfer of records under section 3(4) of the Public Records Act 1958 or section 3 of the Public Records Act (Northern Ireland) 1923, and
passed or made, or operating, for a purpose mentioned in section 2(2)(a) or (b) of that Act,
where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such agreements must be recorded, it is recorded in the prescribed manner.
The constitution of the scheme manager must provide for it to have—
does not have parental responsibility for a particular child; but
For the purposes of this Act, any direct EU legislation is operative immediately before exit day if— (a) in the case of anything which comes into force at a particular time and is stated to apply from a later time, it is in force and applies immediately before exit day, (b) in the case of a decision which specifies to whom it is addressed, it has been notified to that person before exit day, and (c) in any other case, it is in force immediately before exit day.
“The relevant independent school standards” are the independent school standards (as defined in section 157(2) of EA 2002) that are applicable to the Academy on the conversion date.
in relation to any other matter, the material date is the date by which a statement under section 1 is required to be given.
section 2 above shall apply as if anything the accused intended to do or facilitate in any place outside the home country concerned which would be an offence to which section 2 applies if it took place in the home country concerned were the offence in question.
A person appointed under paragraph 1(e) ceases to be a member of the Committee if the person becomes a member of either House of Parliament.
a UK institution of a class exempted by order made by the Treasury.
