In this section, “ the appropriate religious body ”, in relation to a school, means—
whether persons who may be affected by the conduct of the undertaking, other than the self-employed person (or his employees), may thereby be exposed to risks to their health or safety.
restriction, erasure or destruction,
but does not include either House of Parliament or a person exercising functions in connection with proceedings in Parliament.
to secure an appropriate degree of protection for the depositors concerned, or
D may deprive P of his liberty if, by doing so, D is giving effect to a relevant decision of the court.
controlling the emission into the atmosphere of noxious or offensive substances from premises of any class prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph.
withdraw a suspension or restriction; or
Provision of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(da) may, in particular, include provision relating to—
the IPSA determines under section 6(3) that a claim is to be refused or that only part of the amount claimed is to be allowed, and
“Data subject” means the identified or identifiable living individual to whom personal data relates.
A cannot show it to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.
he knows at the time when he causes the computer to perform the function that that is the case.
The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not entitle him to act in any way which would be incompatible with any order made with respect to the child under this Act.
the scale or rate of remuneration or the method of calculating remuneration,
Where the determination relates to life-sustaining treatment he must not, in considering whether the treatment is in the best interests of the person concerned, be motivated by a desire to bring about his death.
any deputy appointed for the person by the court,
its effect is not reproduced in an enactment to which section 2(1) applies, or
In case 1 it does not matter whether the person to whom the advantage is offered, promised or given is the same person as the person who is to perform, or has performed, the function or activity concerned.
The goods which form the subject of a contract of sale may be either existing goods, owned or possessed by the seller, or goods to be manufactured or acquired by him after the making of the contract of sale, in this Act called future goods.
The price in a contract of sale may be fixed by the contract, or may be left to be fixed in a manner agreed by the contract, or may be determined by the course of dealing between the parties.
the Secretary of State agrees to make payments to the other party in consideration of those undertakings.
order the IPSA to make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to that decision
Any rights, powers, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, remedies and procedures which, immediately before exit day—
The Secretary of State may by regulations—
but does not include any enactment contained in the European Communities Act 1972.
When the scheme (or revision) is laid, the IPSA must publish in a way it considers appropriate—
“Relevant period”, in relation to a person who is a member of the House of Commons, means the period beginning with the day after the day of the poll for the parliamentary election at which the member was elected and ending with—
ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is carried on in a way that avoids any adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services,
have regard to the risks to which a ring-fenced body would be exposed if it carried on the activity concerned, and
in the case of one or more provisions of, or made under, primary legislation which cannot be read or given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights, the authority was acting so as to give effect to or enforce those provisions.
to impair the operation of any computer
Capacity to buy and sell is regulated by the general law concerning capacity to contract and to transfer and acquire property.
any other physical element or quality.
The Minister for the Cabinet Office shall lay before each House of Parliament any code or revised code made under this section.
less favourable treatment of a woman includes less favourable treatment of her because she is breast-feeding;
The duty of the IPSA to pay a salary to a member is subject to anything done in relation to the member in the exercise of the disciplinary powers of the House of Commons.
The member may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against a decision of the Compliance Officer under subsection (2)(b).
that the application has been withdrawn or abandoned.
a feature of an approach to, exit from or access to a building,
The regulated activity of dealing in investments as principal (whether carried on in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) is an excluded activity unless it is carried on in circumstances specified by the Treasury by order.
There may be a contract for the sale of goods the acquisition of which by the seller depends on a contingency which may or may not happen.
An early parliamentary general election is to take place if—
It shall be the duty of every employer to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare at work of all his employees.
subsection (3) has effect as if for “fifth” there were substituted “fourth”.
alignment or combination, or
the request, agreement or acceptance itself constitutes the improper performance by R of a relevant function or activity.
This is in addition to any liability to criminal proceedings in respect of the failure mentioned in subsection (1).
A statutory instrument containing an order under subsection (5) may not be made unless a draft has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.
an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data or an online identifier, or
is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made.
securing the health, safety and welfare of persons at work;
specifying any procedure applicable to the taking of disciplinary decisions relating to the employee, or to a decision to dismiss the employee, or referring the employee to the provisions of a document specifying such a procedure which is reasonably accessible to the employee,
In relation to the matters mentioned in subsection (2), the continuity objective is: protecting the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services (see section 142C).
Proceedings under subsection (1)(a) must be brought before the end of—
Each regulator's policy with respect to the imposition of penalties, suspensions or restrictions under this Part must include policy with respect to their imposition in relation to conduct which constitutes or may constitute an offence by virtue of section 23(1A) (authorised persons carrying on credit-related regulated activities otherwise than in accordance with permission).
the period for which he is to work outside the United Kingdom,
In subsection (5) references to the client of a professional legal adviser include references to any person representing such a client.
by means by which it is required by an enactment to be processed,
the giving of permission for datasets to be re-used,
The draft must be accompanied by notice that representations about the proposal may be made to the regulator within a specified time.
specifying any disciplinary rules applicable to the employee or referring the employee to the provisions of a document specifying such rules which is reasonably accessible to the employee,
“Filing system” means any structured set of personal data which is accessible according to specific criteria, whether held by automated means or manually and whether centralised, decentralised or dispersed on a functional or geographical basis.
The rights referred to in subsection (2) include, in particular, the right of the guardian to receive or recover in his own name, for the benefit of the child, property of whatever description and wherever situated which the child is entitled to receive or recover.
Before a maintained school in England is converted into an Academy, the school's governing body must consult such persons as they think appropriate about whether the conversion should take place.
to obtain or retain business for C, or
the practice to be adopted in relation to the transfer of records under section 3(4) of the Public Records Act 1958 or section 3 of the Public Records Act (Northern Ireland) 1923, and
passed or made, or operating, for a purpose mentioned in section 2(2)(a) or (b) of that Act,
where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such agreements must be recorded, it is recorded in the prescribed manner.
The constitution of the scheme manager must provide for it to have—
does not have parental responsibility for a particular child; but
“The relevant independent school standards” are the independent school standards (as defined in section 157(2) of EA 2002) that are applicable to the Academy on the conversion date.
in relation to any other matter, the material date is the date by which a statement under section 1 is required to be given.
section 2 above shall apply as if anything the accused intended to do or facilitate in any place outside the home country concerned which would be an offence to which section 2 applies if it took place in the home country concerned were the offence in question.
A person appointed under paragraph 1(e) ceases to be a member of the Committee if the person becomes a member of either House of Parliament.
a UK institution of a class exempted by order made by the Treasury.
