Ref	Original	Compressed	Target	Fragment	Concatenation
CA 2006 s18(1)	A company must have articles of association prescribing regulations for the company.	A company must have articles of association	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 s18(2)	"Unless it is a company to which model articles apply by virtue of section 20 (default application of model articles in case of limited company), it must register articles of association."	"Unless it is a company to which model articles apply, it must register articles of association."	No	No	No
CA 2006 s18(3)	"Articles of association registered by a company must be contained in a single document, and be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively."	"Articles of association must be contained in a single document, and be divided into paragraphs."	No	No	No
CA 2006 19(1)	The Secretary of State may by regulations prescribe model articles of association for companies	The Secretary of State may prescribe model articles of association	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 22(1)	"A company's articles may contain provision (“provision for entrenchment”) to the effect that specified provisions of the articles may be amended or repealed only if conditions are met, or procedures are complied with, that are more restrictive than those applicable in the case of a special resolution."	A company's articles may contain provision to the effect that specified provisions of the articles may be amended or repealed only if conditions are met that are more restrictive than in the case of a special resolution.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 23(1)	"Where a company's articles: on formation contain provision for entrenchment; are amended so as to include such provision; or are altered by order of a court or other authority so as to restrict or exclude the power of the company to amend its articles, the company must give notice of that fact to the registrar."	"Where a company's articles contain provision for entrenchment, the company must give notice of that fact to the registrar."	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 23(2)	"Where a company's articles - (a) are amended so as to remove provision for entrenchment, or (b) are altered by order of a court or other authority - (i) so as to remove such provision, or (ii) so as to remove any other restriction on, or any exclusion of, the power of the company to amend its articles, the company must give notice of that fact to the registrar.
"	"Where a company's articles are amended so as to remove provision for entrenchment the company must give notice of that fact to the registrar.
"	No	No	No
CA 2006 24(1)	"This section applies where a company's articles are subject— (a) to provision for entrenchment, or (b) to an order of a court or other authority restricting or excluding the company's power to amend the articles."	"This section applies where a company's articles are subject— (a) to provision for entrenchment, or (b) to an order of a court restricting the company's power to amend the articles."	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 24(2)	"If the company— (a) amends its articles, and (b) is required to send to the registrar a document making or evidencing the amendment, the company must deliver with that document a statement of compliance.
"	"If the company amends its articles, and is required to send to the registrar a document evidencing the amendment, the company must deliver a statement of compliance.
"	No	No	No
CA 2006 24(3)	"The statement of compliance required is a statement certifying that the amendment has been made in accordance with the company's articles and, where relevant, any applicable order of a court or other authority."	The statement of compliance is a statement certifying that the amendment has been made in accordance with the company's articles and any applicable order of a court.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 25(1)	"A member of a company is not bound by an alteration to its articles after the date on which he became a member, if and so far as the alteration— (a) requires him to take or subscribe for more shares than the number held by him at the date on which the alteration is made, or (b) in any way increases his liability as at that date to contribute to the company's share capital or otherwise to pay money to the company."	"A member of a company is not bound by an alteration to its articles after the date on which he became a member, if the alteration— (a) requires him to take or subscribe for more shares, or (b) in any way increases his liability to pay money to the company."	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 25(1)(a)	requires him to take or subscribe for more shares than the number held by him at the date on which the alteration is made	requires him to take or subscribe for more shares	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 25(1)(b)	in any way increases his liability as at that date to contribute to the company's share capital or otherwise to pay money to the company.	in any way increases his liability to pay money to the company.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 25(2)	"Subsection (1) does not apply in a case where the member agrees in writing, either before or after the alteration is made, to be bound by the alteration."	Subsection (1) does not apply where the member agrees in writing to be bound by the alteration.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 27(1)	"If it appears to the registrar that a company has failed to comply with any enactment requiring it— (a) to send to the registrar a document making or evidencing an alteration in the company's articles, or (b) to send to the registrar a copy of the company's articles as amended, the registrar may give notice to the company requiring it to comply.
"	"If a company has failed to comply with any enactment requiring it— (a) to send a document evidencing an alteration in the company's articles, or (b) to send a copy of the company's articles as amended, the registrar may give notice to the company requiring it to comply.
"	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 27(3)	"If the company complies with the notice within the specified time, no criminal proceedings may be brought in respect of the failure to comply with the enactment mentioned in subsection (1)."	"If the company complies with the notice within the specified time, no criminal proceedings may be brought."	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 27(4)	This is in addition to any liability to criminal proceedings in respect of the failure mentioned in subsection (1).	This is in addition to any liability to criminal proceedings.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 28(1)	Provisions that immediately before the commencement of this Part were contained in a company's memorandum but are not provisions of the kind mentioned in section 8 (provisions of new-style memorandum) are to be treated after the commencement of this Part as provisions of the company's articles.	Provisions that were contained in a company's memorandum but are not provisions of the kind mentioned in section 8 are to be treated as provisions of the company's articles.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 30(1)	"A copy of every resolution or agreement to which this Chapter applies, or (in the case of a resolution or agreement that is not in writing) a written memorandum setting out its terms, must be forwarded to the registrar within 15 days after it is passed or made."	A copy of every resolution or agreement to which this Chapter applies must be forwarded to the registrar within 15 days after it is passed.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 31(2)	"Where a company amends its articles so as to add, remove or alter a statement of the company's objects - (a) it must give notice to the registrar, (b) on receipt of the notice, the registrar shall register it, and (c) the amendment is not effective until entry of that notice on the register."	Where a company amends its articles so as to alter the company's objects it must give notice to the registrar and the amendment is not effective until entry of that notice on the register.	No	No	No
CA 2006 33(1)	The provisions of a company's constitution bind the company and its members to the same extent as if there were covenants on the part of the company and of each member to observe those provisions.	The provisions of a company's constitution bind the company and its members as if there were covenants of the company and of each member to observe those provisions.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 35(1)	"Where a company's constitution is altered by an order of a court or other authority, the company must give notice to the registrar of the alteration not later than 15 days after the alteration takes effect."	"Where a company's constitution is altered by an order of a court, the company must give notice to the registrar of the alteration."	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 35(2)	"The notice must be accompanied by— (a) a copy of the order, and (b) if the order amends— (i) the company's articles, or (ii) a resolution or agreement to which Chapter 3 applies (resolutions and agreements affecting the company's constitution), a copy of the company's articles, or the resolution or agreement in question, as amended."	"The notice must be accompanied by— (a) a copy of the order, and (b) if the order amends the company's articles, or a resolution or agreement to which Chapter 3 applies, a copy of the company's articles, or the resolution or agreement in question."	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 35(2)	"a copy of the company's articles, or the resolution or agreement in question, as amended."	"a copy of the company's articles, or the resolution or agreement in question."	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 37	"In the case of a company limited by guarantee and not having a share capital any provision in the company's articles, or in any resolution of the company, purporting to give a person a right to participate in the divisible profits of the company otherwise than as a member is void."	In the case of a company limited by guarantee any provision in the company's articles purporting to give a person a right to participate in the divisible profits of the company otherwise than as a member is void.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 38	"Any enactment or rule of law applicable to companies formed by two or more persons or having two or more members applies with any necessary modification in relation to a company formed by one person or having only one person as a member.
"	"Any rule applicable to companies formed by two or more persons applies with any necessary modification in relation to a company formed by one person.
"	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 39 (1)	The validity of an act done by a company shall not be called into question on the ground of lack of capacity by reason of anything in the company's constitution.	The validity of an act done by a company shall not be called into question by reason of anything in the company's constitution.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 40 (1)	"In favour of a person dealing with a company in good faith, the power of the directors to bind the company, or authorise others to do so, is deemed to be free of any limitation under the company's constitution."	"In favour of a person dealing with a company in good faith, the power of the directors to bind the company is deemed to be free of any limitation under the company's constitution."	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 40 (2)	"For this purpose— (a) a person “deals with” a company if he is a party to any transaction or other act to which the company is a party, (b) a person dealing with a company— (i) is not bound to enquire as to any limitation on the powers of the directors to bind the company or authorise others to do so, (ii) is presumed to have acted in good faith unless the contrary is proved, and (iii) is not to be regarded as acting in bad faith by reason only of his knowing that an act is beyond the powers of the directors under the company's constitution."	"For this purpose— (a) a person “deals with” a company if he is a party to any transaction or other act to which the company is a party, (b) a person dealing with a company— (i) is not bound to enquire as to any limitation on the powers of the directors to bind the company, (ii) is presumed to have acted in good faith, and (iii) is not to be regarded as acting in bad faith by reason only of his knowing that an act is beyond the powers of the directors under the company's constitution."	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 40 (2)	"is not bound to enquire as to any limitation on the powers of the directors to bind the company or authorise others to do so,"	is not bound to enquire as to any limitation on the powers of the directors to bind the company	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 40 (2)	"is presumed to have acted in good faith unless the contrary is proved,"	is presumed to have acted in good faith	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 41(3)	"Whether or not it is avoided, any such party to the transaction as is mentioned in subsection (2)(b)(i) or (ii), and any director of the company who authorised the transaction, is liable— (a) to account to the company for any gain he has made directly or indirectly by the transaction, and (b) to indemnify the company for any loss or damage resulting from the transaction."	"Whether or not it is avoided, any such party to the transaction mentioned in subsection (2)(b)(i) or (ii), and any director of the company who authorised the transaction, is liable— (a) to account to the company for any gain he has made by the transaction, and (b) to indemnify the company for any loss resulting from the transaction."	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 41(3)	"to account to the company for any gain he has made directly or indirectly by the transaction,"	"to account to the company for any gain he has made by the transaction,"	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 41(3)	to indemnify the company for any loss or damage resulting from the transaction.	to indemnify the company for any loss resulting from the transaction.	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 41(4)	"The transaction ceases to be voidable if— (a) restitution of any money or other asset which was the subject matter of the transaction is no longer possible, or (b) the company is indemnified for any loss or damage resulting from the transaction, or (c) rights acquired bona fide for value and without actual notice of the directors' exceeding their powers by a person who is not party to the transaction would be affected by the avoidance, or (d) the transaction is affirmed by the company."	"The transaction ceases to be voidable if— (a) restitution is no longer possible, or (b) the company is indemnified for any loss, or (c) rights acquired bona fide for value by a person who is not party to the transaction would be affected by the avoidance, or (d) the transaction is affirmed by the company."	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 41(4)	"restitution of any money or other asset which was the subject matter of the transaction is no longer possible, or"	"restitution is no longer possible, or"	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 41(4)	"the company is indemnified for any loss or damage resulting from the transaction, or"	the company is indemnified for any loss	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 41(4)	"rights acquired bona fide for value and without actual notice of the directors' exceeding their powers by a person who is not party to the transaction would be affected by the avoidance, or"	"rights acquired bona fide for value by a person who is not party to the transaction would be affected by the avoidance, or"	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 42(1)	"Sections 39 and 40 (company's capacity and power of directors to bind company) do not apply to the acts of a company that is a charity except in favour of a person who— (a) does not know at the time the act is done that the company is a charity, or (b) gives full consideration in money or money's worth in relation to the act in question and does not know (as the case may be)— (i) that the act is not permitted by the company's constitution, or (ii) that the act is beyond the powers of the directors."	"Sections 39 and 40 do not apply to a charity except in favour of a person who— (a) does not know that the company is a charity, or (b) gives full consideration in money or money's worth and does not know (as the case may be)— (i) that the act is not permitted by the company's constitution, or (ii) that the act is beyond the powers of the directors."	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 42(1)	Sections 39 and 40 (company's capacity and power of directors to bind company) do not apply to the acts of a company that is a charity except in favour of a person who—	Sections 39 and 40 do not apply to a charity except in favour of a person who—	No	Yes	No
CA 2006 42(1)	"does not know at the time the act is done that the company is a charity, or"	"does not know that the company is a charity, or"	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 42(1)	gives full consideration in money or money's worth in relation to the act in question and does not know (as the case may be)—	gives full consideration in money or money's worth and does not know (as the case may be)—	No	Yes	No
CA 2006 42(2)	"Where a company that is a charity purports to transfer or grant an interest in property, the fact that (as the case may be)— (a) the act was not permitted by the company's constitution, or (b) the directors in connection with the act exceeded any limitation on their powers under the company's constitution, does not affect the title of a person who subsequently acquires the property or any interest in it for full consideration without actual notice of any such circumstances affecting the validity of the company's act.
"	"Where a charity purports to transfer property, the fact that (as the case may be)— (a) the act was not permitted by the company's constitution, or (b) the directors in connection with the act exceeded any limitation on their powers under the company's constitution, does not affect the title of a person who subsequently acquires the property for full consideration.
"	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 42(2)	"Where a company that is a charity purports to transfer or grant an interest in property, the fact that (as the case may be)— 
"	"Where a charity purports to transfer property, the fact that (as the case may be)— 
"	No	Yes	No
CA 2006 42(2)	"does not affect the title of a person who subsequently acquires the property or any interest in it for full consideration without actual notice of any such circumstances affecting the validity of the company's act.
"	"does not affect the title of a person who subsequently acquires the property or any interest in it for full consideration.
"	Yes	Yes	No
CA 2006 43(1)	"Under the law of England and Wales or Northern Ireland a contract may be made— (a) by a company, by writing under its common seal, or (b) on behalf of a company, by a person acting under its authority, express or implied."	"Under the law of England and Wales or Northern Ireland a contract may be made— (a) by a company, by writing under its common seal, or (b) on behalf of a company, by a person acting under its authority."	No	No	Yes
CA 2006 45(4)	"An officer of a company, or a person acting on behalf of a company, commits an offence if he uses, or authorises the use of, a seal purporting to be a seal of the company on which its name is not engraved as required by subsection (2)."	An officer of a company commits an offence if he uses a seal purporting to be a seal of the company on which its name is not engraved.	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 47(1)	"Under the law of England and Wales or Northern Ireland a company may, by instrument executed as a deed, empower a person, either generally or in respect of specified matters, as its attorney to execute deeds or other documents on its behalf."	"A company may, by instrument executed as a deed, empower a person as its attorney to execute deeds or other documents on its behalf."	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 51(1)	"A contract that purports to be made by or on behalf of a company at a time when the company has not been formed has effect, subject to any agreement to the contrary, as one made with the person purporting to act for the company or as agent for it, and he is personally liable on the contract accordingly."	"A contract made by a company at a time when the company has not been formed has effect, subject to any agreement to the contrary, as one made with the person purporting to act for the company, and he is personally liable on the contract accordingly."	Yes	No	No
CA 2006 52	"A bill of exchange or promissory note is deemed to have been made, accepted or endorsed on behalf of a company if made, accepted or endorsed in the name of, or by or on behalf or on account of, the company by a person acting under its authority."	A bill of exchange or promissory note is deemed to have been made on behalf of a company if made by a person acting under its authority.	Yes	No	No
BA 2010 1(2)	"Case 1 is where— (a) P offers, promises or gives a financial or other advantage to another person, and (b) P intends the advantage— (i) to induce a person to perform improperly a relevant function or activity, or (ii) to reward a person for the improper performance of such a function or activity."	"Case 1 is where— (a) P offers a financial or other advantage to another person, and (b) P intends the advantage— (i) to induce a person to perform improperly a relevant function, or (ii) to reward a person for the improper performance of such a function."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 1(2)	"P offers, promises or gives a financial or other advantage to another person, and"	"P offers a financial or other advantage to another person, and"	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 1(3)	"Case 2 is where— (a) P offers, promises or gives a financial or other advantage to another person, and (b) P knows or believes that the acceptance of the advantage would itself constitute the improper performance of a relevant function or activity."	"Case 2 is where— (a) P offers a financial or other advantage to another person, and (b) P knows or believes that the acceptance of the advantage would itself constitute the improper performance of a relevant function."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 1(4)	"In case 1 it does not matter whether the person to whom the advantage is offered, promised or given is the same person as the person who is to perform, or has performed, the function or activity concerned."	In case 1 it does not matter whether the person to whom the advantage is offered is the same person as the person who is to perform the function concerned.	Yes	No	No
BA 2010 2(2)	"Case 3 is where R requests, agrees to receive or accepts a financial or other advantage intending that, in consequence, a relevant function or activity should be performed improperly (whether by R or another person)."	Case 3 is where R accepts a financial or other advantage intending that a relevant function or activity should be performed improperly.	Yes	No	No
BA 2010 2(3)	"Case 4 is where— (a) R requests, agrees to receive or accepts a financial or other advantage, and (b) the request, agreement or acceptance itself constitutes the improper performance by R of a relevant function or activity."	"Case 4 is where— (a) R accepts a financial or other advantage, and (b) the acceptance itself constitutes the improper performance by R of a relevant function."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 2(3)	"R requests, agrees to receive or accepts a financial or other advantage, and"	"R accepts a financial or other advantage, and"	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 2(3)	"the request, agreement or acceptance itself constitutes the improper performance by R of a relevant function or activity."	the acceptance itself constitutes the improper performance by R of a relevant function.	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 2(4)	"Case 5 is where R requests, agrees to receive or accepts a financial or other advantage as a reward for the improper performance (whether by R or another person) of a relevant function or activity."	Case 5 is where R accepts a financial or other advantage as a reward for the improper performance of a relevant function.	Yes	No	No
BA 2010 2(5)	"Case 6 is where, in anticipation of or in consequence of R requesting, agreeing to receive or accepting a financial or other advantage, a relevant function or activity is performed improperly— (a) by R, or (b) by another person at R's request or with R's assent or acquiescence."	"Case 6 is where, in consequence of R accepting a financial or other advantage, a relevant function is performed improperly— (a) by R, or (b) by another person at R's request."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 2(5)	"Case 6 is where, in anticipation of or in consequence of R requesting, agreeing to receive or accepting a financial or other advantage, a relevant function or activity is performed improperly—"	"Case 6 is where, in consequence of R accepting a financial or other advantage, a relevant function is performed improperly—"	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 2(5)	by another person at R's request or with R's assent or acquiescence.	by another person at R's request.	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 2(6)	"In cases 3 to 6 it does not matter— (a) whether R requests, agrees to receive or accepts (or is to request, agree to receive or accept) the advantage directly or through a third party, (b) whether the advantage is (or is to be) for the benefit of R or another person."	"In cases 3 to 6 it does not matter— (a) whether R accepts the advantage directly or through a third party, (b) whether the advantage is for the benefit of R or another person."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 2(6)	"whether R requests, agrees to receive or accepts (or is to request, agree to receive or accept) the advantage directly or through a third party,"	"whether R accepts the advantage directly or through a third party,"	No	Yes	No
BA 2010 2(6)	whether the advantage is (or is to be) for the benefit of R or another person.	whether the advantage is for the benefit of R or another person.	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 2(7)	In cases 4 to 6 it does not matter whether R knows or believes that the performance of the function or activity is improper.	In cases 4 to 6 it does not matter whether R knows that the performance of the function is improper.	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 2(8)	"In case 6, where a person other than R is performing the function or activity, it also does not matter whether that person knows or believes that the performance of the function or activity is improper."	"In case 6, where a person other than R is performing the function, it also does not matter whether that person knows that the performance of the function is improper."	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 4(1)	"For the purposes of this Act a relevant function or activity— (a) is performed improperly if it is performed in breach of a relevant expectation, and (b) is to be treated as being performed improperly if there is a failure to perform the function or activity and that failure is itself a breach of a relevant expectation."	"A relevant function— (a) is performed improperly if it is performed in breach of a relevant expectation, and (b) is treated as being performed improperly if there is a failure to perform the function and that failure is itself a breach of a relevant expectation."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 4(2)	"In subsection (1) “relevant expectation”— (a) in relation to a function or activity which meets condition A or B, means the expectation mentioned in the condition concerned, and (b) in relation to a function or activity which meets condition C, means any expectation as to the manner in which, or the reasons for which, the function or activity will be performed that arises from the position of trust mentioned in that condition."	"“relevant expectation”— (a) in relation to a function which meets condition A or B, means the expectation mentioned in the condition concerned, and (b) in relation to a function which meets condition C, means any expectation as to the manner in which the function will be performed that arises from the position of trust."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 4(3)	Anything that a person does (or omits to do) arising from or in connection with that person's past performance of a relevant function or activity is to be treated for the purposes of this Act as being done (or omitted) by that person in the performance of that function or activity.	Anything that a person does arising from that person's past performance of a relevant function is to be treated as being done by that person in the performance of that function.	Yes	No	No
BA 2010 5(1)	"For the purposes of sections 3 and 4, the test of what is expected is a test of what a reasonable person in the United Kingdom would expect in relation to the performance of the type of function or activity concerned."	The test of what is expected is a test of what a reasonable person in the United Kingdom would expect in relation to the performance of the type of function concerned.	No	No	No
BA 2010 5(2)	"In deciding what such a person would expect in relation to the performance of a function or activity where the performance is not subject to the law of any part of the United Kingdom, any local custom or practice is to be disregarded unless it is permitted or required by the written law applicable to the country or territory concerned."	"In deciding what a person would expect in relation to the performance of a function where the performance is not subject to the law of the United Kingdom, any local custom or practice is to be disregarded unless it is permitted or required by the written law applicable to the country concerned."	No	No	No
BA 2010 5(3)	"In subsection (2) “written law” means law contained in— (a) any written constitution, or provision made by or under legislation, applicable to the country or territory concerned, or (b) any judicial decision which is so applicable and is evidenced in published written sources."	"“written law” means law contained in— (a) any written constitution, or provision made by legislation, applicable to the country concerned, or (b) any judicial decision which is  applicable and is evidenced in published written sources."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 6(3)	"P bribes F if, and only if— (a) directly or through a third party, P offers, promises or gives any financial or other advantage— (i) to F, or (ii) to another person at F's request or with F's assent or acquiescence, and (b) F is neither permitted nor required by the written law applicable to F to be influenced in F's capacity as a foreign public official by the offer, promise or gift."	"P bribes F if, and only if— (a) P offers any financial or other advantage— (i) to F, or (ii) to another person at F's request, and (b) F is neither permitted nor required by the written law applicable to F to be influenced in F's capacity as a foreign public official by the offer."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 6(3)	"directly or through a third party, P offers, promises or gives any financial or other advantage—"	"P offers, promises or gives any financial or other advantage—"	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 6(3)	"to another person at F's request or with F's assent or acquiescence, and"	to another person at F's request	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 6(5)	"“Foreign public official” means an individual who— (a) holds a legislative, administrative or judicial position of any kind, whether appointed or elected, of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom (or any subdivision of such a country or territory), (b) exercises a public function— (i) for or on behalf of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom (or any subdivision of such a country or territory), or (ii) for any public agency or public enterprise of that country or territory (or subdivision), or (c) is an official or agent of a public international organisation."	"“Foreign public official” means an individual who— (a) holds a legislative position of any kind of a country outside the United Kingdom, (b) exercises a public function— (i) for a country  outside the United Kingdom, or (ii) for any public agency of that country, or (c) is an official of a public international organisation."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 6(5)	"holds a legislative, administrative or judicial position of any kind, whether appointed or elected, of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom (or any subdivision of such a country or territory),"	"holds a legislative position of any kind of a country outside the United Kingdom,"	No	Yes	No
BA 2010 6(5)	"for or on behalf of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom (or any subdivision of such a country or territory), or"	"for a country outside the United Kingdom, or"	No	Yes	No
BA 2010 6(5)	"for any public agency or public enterprise of that country or territory (or subdivision), or"	"for any public agency of that country, or"	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 6(5)	is an official or agent of a public international organisation.	is an official of a public international organisation.	Yes	Yes	No
BA 2010 6(7)	"For the purposes of subsection (3)(b), the written law applicable to F is— (a) where the performance of the functions of F which P intends to influence would be subject to the law of any part of the United Kingdom, the law of that part of the United Kingdom, (b) where paragraph (a) does not apply and F is an official or agent of a public international organisation, the applicable written rules of that organisation, (c) where paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply, the law of the country or territory in relation to which F is a foreign public official so far as that law is contained in— (i) any written constitution, or provision made by or under legislation, applicable to the country or territory concerned, or (ii) any judicial decision which is so applicable and is evidenced in published written sources."	"The written law applicable to F is— (a) where the performance of the functions of F which P intends to influence would be subject to the law of the United Kingdom, the law of the United Kingdom, (b) where paragraph (a) does not apply and F is an official of a public international organisation, the written rules of that organisation, (c) where paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply, the law of the country in relation to which F is a foreign public official so far as that law is contained in— (i) any written constitution, or provision made by legislation, applicable to the country, or (ii) any judicial decision which is applicable and is evidenced in published written sources."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 6(7)	"where the performance of the functions of F which P intends to influence would be subject to the law of any part of the United Kingdom, the law of that part of the United Kingdom,"	"where the performance of the functions of F which P intends to influence would be subject to the law of the United Kingdom, the law of the United Kingdom,"	Yes	yes	No
BA 2010 6(7)	"where paragraph (a) does not apply and F is an official or agent of a public international organisation, the applicable written rules of that organisation,"	"where paragraph (a) does not apply and F is an official of a public international organisation, the written rules of that organisation,"	No	yes	No
BA 2010 6(7)	"where paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply, the law of the country or territory in relation to which F is a foreign public official so far as that law is contained in—"	"where paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply, the law of the country in relation to which F is a foreign public official so far as that law is contained in—"	No	yes	No
BA 2010 6(7)	"any written constitution, or provision made by or under legislation, applicable to the country or territory concerned, or"	"any written constitution, or provision made by legislation, applicable to the country, or"	Yes	yes	No
BA 2010 6(7)	any judicial decision which is so applicable and is evidenced in published written sources.	any judicial decision which is applicable and is evidenced in published written sources.	No	yes	No
BA 2010 7(1)	"A relevant commercial organisation (“C”) is guilty of an offence under this section if a person (“A”) associated with C bribes another person intending— (a) to obtain or retain business for C, or (b) to obtain or retain an advantage in the conduct of business for C."	"A commercial organisation (“C”) is guilty of an offence if a person (“A”) associated with C bribes another person intending— (a) to obtain business for C, or (b) to obtain an advantage in the conduct of business for C."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 7(1)	"to obtain or retain business for C, or"	"to obtain business for C, or"	Yes	yes	No
BA 2010 7(1)	to obtain or retain an advantage in the conduct of business for C.	to obtain an advantage in the conduct of business for C.	Yes	yes	No
BA 2010 7(2)	But it is a defence for C to prove that C had in place adequate procedures designed to prevent persons associated with C from undertaking such conduct.	But it is a defence for C to prove that C had adequate procedures to prevent persons associated with C from undertaking such conduct.	Yes	No	No
BA 2010 8(1)	"For the purposes of section 7, a person (“A”) is associated with C if (disregarding any bribe under consideration) A is a person who performs services for or on behalf of C."	A person (“A”) is associated with C if A is a person who performs services for C.	No	No	No
BA 2010 10(5)	"The only exception is if— (a) the Director concerned is unavailable, and (b) there is another person who is designated in writing by the Director acting personally as the person who is authorised to exercise any such function when the Director is unavailable."	"The only exception is if— (a) the Director is unavailable, and (b) there is another person who is designated in writing by the Director as the person who is authorised when the Director is unavailable."	No	No	Yes
BA 2010 10(5)	"the Director concerned is unavailable, and"	"the Director is unavailable, and"	Yes	yes	No
BA 2010 10(5)	there is another person who is designated in writing by the Director acting personally as the person who is authorised to exercise any such function when the Director is unavailable.	there is another person who is designated in writing by the Director as the person who is authorised when the Director is unavailable.	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 1(3)	"An Academy agreement is an agreement between the Secretary of State and the other party under which— (a) the other party gives the undertakings in subsection (5), and (b) the Secretary of State agrees to make payments to the other party in consideration of those undertakings."	"An Academy agreement is an agreement between the Secretary of State and the other party under which— (a) the other party gives the undertakings in subsection (5), and (b) the Secretary of State agrees to make payments to the other party."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 1(3)	the Secretary of State agrees to make payments to the other party in consideration of those undertakings.	the Secretary of State agrees to make payments to the other party.	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 1C(1)	"An educational institution meets the requirements of this section if— (a) it is principally concerned with providing full-time or part-time education for children of compulsory school age who, by reason of illness, exclusion from school or otherwise, may not otherwise receive suitable education for any period, (b) it provides education for children of different abilities, and (c) it provides education for children who are wholly or mainly drawn from the area in which it is situated."	"An educational institution meets the requirements of this section if— (a) it is concerned with providing education for children who, by reason of illness, exclusion from school or otherwise, may not otherwise receive suitable education, (b) it provides education for children of different abilities, and (c) it provides education for children who are drawn from the area in which it is situated."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 1C(1)	"it is principally concerned with providing full-time or part-time education for children of compulsory school age who, by reason of illness, exclusion from school or otherwise, may not otherwise receive suitable education for any period,"	"it is concerned with providing education for children who, by reason of illness, exclusion from school or otherwise, may not otherwise receive suitable education,"	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 1C(1)	it provides education for children who are wholly or mainly drawn from the area in which it is situated.	it provides education for children who are drawn from the area in which it is situated.	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 2(3)	"If an Academy agreement makes provision for payments in respect of capital expenditure, the agreement may provide for the repayment to the Secretary of State, in circumstances specified in the agreement, of sums determined in accordance with the agreement."	"If an Academy agreement makes provision for payments in respect of capital expenditure, the agreement may provide for the repayment of sums determined in accordance with the agreement."	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 2A(1)	"An Academy agreement in respect of an Academy school or an alternative provision Academy must include provision allowing the Secretary of State to terminate the agreement if— (a) special measures are required to be taken in relation to the Academy, or (b) the Academy requires significant improvement."	"An Academy agreement must include provision allowing the Secretary of State to terminate if— (a) special measures are required to be taken in relation to the Academy, or (b) the Academy requires significant improvement."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 2B(1)	"An Academy agreement in respect of an Academy school or an alternative provision Academy must include provision allowing the Secretary of State to terminate the agreement if— (a) the Academy is coasting, and (b) the Secretary of State has notified the proprietor that it is coasting."	"An Academy agreement must include provision allowing the Secretary of State to terminate  if— (a) the Academy is coasting, and (b) the Secretary of State has notified the proprietor that it is coasting."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 2B(4)	"The Academy agreement must provide that the power to terminate the agreement on the ground that the Academy is coasting is available only if the proprietor has failed to comply with a termination warning notice (whether by failing to take specified action, or to respond, on time)."	The Academy agreement must provide that the power to terminate the agreement on the ground that the Academy is coasting is available only if the proprietor has failed to comply with a termination warning notice.	No	No	No
AA 2010 3(1)	The governing body of a maintained school in England may apply to the Secretary of State for an Academy order to be made in respect of the school.	The governing body of a maintained school may apply for an Academy order to be made in respect of the school.	No	No	No
AA 2010 3(2)	"In the case of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation, this is subject to subsections (3) and (4)."	"In the case of a school that has a foundation, this is subject to subsections (3) and (4)."	No	No	No
AA 2010 3(3)	The governing body of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation must consult the foundation before making an application under this section.	The governing body of a school that has a foundation must consult the foundation before making an application.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 3(4)	"The governing body of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation may make an application under this section only with the consent of— (a) the trustees of the school, and (b) the person or persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed."	"The governing body of a school that has a foundation may make an application only with the consent of— (a) the trustees of the school, and (b) the persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 3(4)	the person or persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed.	the persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed.	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 3(6)	"In the case of a federated school, references in this section to the governing body include references to members of the governing body who— (a) together make up a proportion of the total number of members that is specified in, or determined in accordance with, regulations, and (b) consist of or include members of any prescribed description."	"In the case of a federated school, references to the governing body include members of the governing body who— (a) together make up a proportion of the total number of members that is specified in regulations, and (b) consist of members of any prescribed description."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 3(6)	"together make up a proportion of the total number of members that is specified in, or determined in accordance with, regulations, and"	"together make up a proportion of the total number of members that is specified in regulations, and"	Yes	Yes	No
AA 2010 3(6)	consist of or include members of any prescribed description.	consist of members of any prescribed description.	Yes	Yes	No
AA 2010 4(A1)	The Secretary of State must make an Academy order in respect of a maintained school in England that is eligible for intervention by virtue of section 61 or 62 EIA 2006 (schools requiring significant improvement or schools requiring special measures).	The Secretary of State must make an Academy order in respect of a maintained school that is eligible for intervention.	No	No	No
AA 2010 4(1)	"The Secretary of State may make an Academy order in respect of a maintained school in England if— (a) an application in respect of the school is made under section 3, or (b) the school is eligible for intervention (within the meaning of Part 4 of EIA 2006) other than by virtue of section 61 or 62 of EIA 2006"	"The Secretary of State may make an Academy order in respect of a maintained school if— (a) an application is made under section 3, or (b) the school is eligible for intervention"	No	No	No
AA 2010 4(1A)	"Before making an Academy order under subsection (1)(b) in respect of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation, the Secretary of State must consult— (a) the trustees of the school, (b) the person or persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed, and (c) in the case of a school which has a religious character, the appropriate religious body."	"Before making an Academy order under subsection (1)(b) in respect of a school that has a foundation, the Secretary of State must consult— (a) the trustees of the school, (b) the persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed, and (c) in the case of a school which has a religious character, the appropriate religious body."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 4(2)	An Academy order in respect of a school is an order for the purpose of enabling the school to be converted into an Academy.	An Academy order is an order for the school to be converted into an Academy.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 4(3)	A maintained school is “converted into” an Academy if Academy arrangements are entered into in relation to the school or an educational institution that replaces it.	A maintained school is “converted into” an Academy if Academy arrangements are entered into in relation to the school that replaces it.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 4(4)	"If an Academy order is made in respect of a school, the Secretary of State must give a copy of the order to— (a) the governing body and head teacher of the school, (b) the local authority, and (c) in the case of a foundation or voluntary school that has a foundation— (i) the trustees of the school, (ii) the person or persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed, and (iii) in the case of a school which has a religious character, the appropriate religious body."	"If an Academy order is made, the Secretary of State must give a copy of the order to— (a) the governing body and head teacher of the school, (b) the local authority, and (c) in the case of a school that has a foundation— (i) the trustees of the school, (ii) the persons by whom the foundation governors are appointed, and (iii) in the case of a school which has a religious character, the appropriate religious body."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 4(6)	Despite section 568(1) of EA 1996 (orders to be made by statutory instrument) (as applied by section 17(4) of this Act) the power of the Secretary of State to make an Academy order is not required to be exercised by statutory instrument.	The power of the Secretary of State to make an Academy order is not required to be exercised by statutory instrument.	No	No	No
AA 2010 4(7)	"An Academy order may include incidental, consequential, supplemental and transitional provision."	An Academy order may include incidental provision.	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 4(8)	"In this section, “ the appropriate religious body ”, in relation to a school, means—"	“ the appropriate religious body ” means—	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 5(1)	"Before a maintained school in England is converted into an Academy, the school's governing body must consult such persons as they think appropriate about whether the conversion should take place."	"Before a maintained school is converted into an Academy, the school's governing body must consult such persons as they think appropriate."	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 5(2)	But this section does not apply if an Academy order under section 4(A1) or (1)(b) has effect in respect of the school.	This section does not apply if an Academy order under section 4(A1) or (1)(b) has effect.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 5(3)	"Consultation for the purposes of this section may be carried out before or after an Academy order, or an application for an Academy order, has been made in respect of the school."	Consultation may be carried out before or after an Academy order has been made.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 5(4)	"In the case of a federated school, the reference in subsection (1) to the governing body includes a reference to any members of the governing body."	"In the case of a federated school, the reference in subsection (1) to the governing body includes any members of the governing body."	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 5C(1)	"Where an Academy order under section 4(A1) or (1)(b) has effect in respect of a school, the Secretary of State may direct the governing body of the school or the local authority to take specified steps for the purpose of facilitating the conversion of the school into an Academy."	"Where an Academy order under section 4(A1) or (1)(b) has effect, the Secretary of State may direct the governing body of the school or the local authority to take steps for the conversion of the school into an Academy."	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 5C(2)	"A direction may, in particular, require the governing body or local authority to prepare a draft of a scheme under section 8 or Part 1 of Schedule 1."	A direction may require the governing body or local authority to prepare a draft of a scheme under section 8 or Part 1 of Schedule 1.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 5E(1)	"Before a maintained school in England which is causing concern is converted into an Academy, the proposed proprietor of the Academy must communicate to the registered parents of registered pupils at the school information about the proposed proprietor's plans to improve the school."	"Before a maintained school which is causing concern is converted into an Academy, the proposed proprietor of the Academy must communicate to the parents of pupils at the school information about the plans to improve the school."	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 5E(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) the “proposed proprietor of the Academy” is the person with whom the Secretary of State proposes to enter or has entered into Academy arrangements in respect of the school; (b) a school is “causing concern” if it is eligible for intervention within the meaning of Part 4 of EIA 2006.	For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) the “proposed proprietor of the Academy” is the person with whom the Secretary of State proposes to enter into Academy arrangements; (b) a school is “causing concern” if it is eligible for intervention.	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 5E(2)	the “proposed proprietor of the Academy” is the person with whom the Secretary of State proposes to enter or has entered into Academy arrangements in respect of the school;	the “proposed proprietor of the Academy” is the person with whom the Secretary of State proposes to enter into Academy arrangements;	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 5E(2)	a school is “causing concern” if it is eligible for intervention within the meaning of Part 4 of EIA 2006.	a school is “causing concern” if it is eligible for intervention.	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 6(2A)	"Subsection (2) does not prohibit the local authority from providing financial or other assistance in respect of the Academy, including by— (a) making payments in respect of some (but not all) of the expenses of maintaining the Academy, (b) providing premises, goods or services for the Academy, or (c) making premises, goods or services available to be used for the purposes of the Academy."	"Subsection (2) does not prohibit the local authority from providing financial assistance in respect of the Academy, including by— (a) making payments of some of the expenses of the Academy, (b) providing premises for the Academy, or (c) making premises available for the Academy."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 6(2A)	"making payments in respect of some (but not all) of the expenses of maintaining the Academy,"	"making payments of some of the expenses of the Academy,"	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 6(2A)	"providing premises, goods or services for the Academy, or"	"providing premises for the Academy, or"	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 6(2A)	"making premises, goods or services available to be used for the purposes of the Academy."	making premises available for the Academy.	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 6(6)	“The relevant independent school standards” are the independent school standards (as defined in section 157(2) of EA 2002) that are applicable to the Academy on the conversion date.	“The relevant independent school standards” are the independent school standards that are applicable to the Academy.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 6(7)	"Subsection (8) applies if the school— (a) is a foundation or voluntary school which is designated by order under section 69(3) of SSFA 1998 as a school having a particular religious character, and (b) is to be converted into an Academy school."	"Subsection (8) applies if the school— (a) is a school which is designated under section 69(3) of SSFA 1998 as having a particular religious character, and (b) is to be converted into an Academy."	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 6(7)	"is a foundation or voluntary school which is designated by order under section 69(3) of SSFA 1998 as a school having a particular religious character, and"	"is a school which is designated under section 69(3) of SSFA 1998 as having a particular religious character, and"	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 6(8)	"The Academy is to be treated, on the conversion date, as designated by order under section 69(3) of SSFA 1998 as an independent school having that religious character."	The Academy is to be treated as designated under section 69(3) of SSFA 1998 as an independent school having that religious character.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 7(3)	"The local authority must pay any amount determined under subsection (2)(b) to the proprietor of the Academy, subject to the provisions of regulations under subsection (4)."	"The local authority must pay any amount determined under subsection (2)(b) to the proprietor of the Academy, subject to subsection (4)."	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 7(4)	Regulations may make provision in connection with the determination and payment of the amount of a surplus under this section.	Regulations may make provision in connection with the determination of a surplus under this section.	Yes	No	No
AA 2010 7(5)	"Regulations under subsection (4) may in particular include provision— (a) requiring the local authority to inform the proprietor of the determinations under subsection (2); (b) authorising the proprietor to apply to the Secretary of State for a review of those determinations; (c) about the procedure for, and the Secretary of State's powers on, any such review; (d) about the effect of any such review on the amount required to be paid by the local authority to the proprietor (including provision requiring repayment of sums by the proprietor or the payment of additional sums by the local authority); (e) about the time limits for doing anything required or permitted to be done under this section or the regulations."	Regulations under subsection (4) may include provision— (a) requiring the local authority to inform the proprietor of the determinations; (b) authorising the proprietor to apply to the Secretary of State for a review; (c) about the procedure for any such review; (d) about the effect of any such review on the amount required to be paid; (e) about the time limits for doing anything required to be done under this section or the regulations.	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 7(5)	requiring the local authority to inform the proprietor of the determinations under subsection (2)	requiring the local authority to inform the proprietor of the determinations	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 7(5)	authorising the proprietor to apply to the Secretary of State for a review of those determinations	authorising the proprietor to apply to the Secretary of State for a review	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 7(5)	"about the procedure for, and the Secretary of State's powers on, any such review"	about the procedure for any such review; (d) about the effect of any such review on the amount required to be paid	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 7(5)	about the effect of any such review on the amount required to be paid by the local authority to the proprietor (including provision requiring repayment of sums by the proprietor or the payment of additional sums by the local authority)	about the effect of any such review on the amount required to be paid	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 7(5)	about the time limits for doing anything required or permitted to be done under this section or the regulations	about the time limits for doing anything required to be done under this section or the regulations	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 7(6)	"For the purposes of this section— (a) a school has a surplus immediately before the conversion date if, at that time, there is an amount made available in respect of the school by a local authority to the school's governing body (under section 50 of SSFA 1998 or otherwise) that has not been spent by the governing body or the head teacher; (b) the amount of the surplus is that amount."	For the purposes of this section— (a) a school has a surplus if there is an amount made available by a local authority to the school's governing body that has not been spent by the governing body; (b) the surplus is that amount.	No	No	Yes
AA 2010 7(6)	"a school has a surplus immediately before the conversion date if, at that time, there is an amount made available in respect of the school by a local authority to the school's governing body (under section 50 of SSFA 1998 or otherwise) that has not been spent by the governing body or the head teacher"	a school has a surplus if there is an amount made available by a local authority to the school's governing body that has not been spent by the governing body	Yes	yes	No
AA 2010 7(6)	the amount of the surplus is that amount.	the surplus is that amount.	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 1(1)	"The provisions of this Part shall have effect with a view to— (a) securing the health, safety and welfare of persons at work; (b) protecting persons other than persons at work against risks to health or safety arising out of or in connection with the activities of persons at work; (c) controlling the keeping and use of explosive or highly flammable or otherwise dangerous substances, and generally preventing the unlawful acquisition, possession and use of such substances; and (d) controlling the emission into the atmosphere of noxious or offensive substances from premises of any class prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph."	"This Part shall have effect with a view to— (a) securing the health of persons at work; (b) protecting other persons against risks to health arising out of the activities of persons at work; (c) controlling the use of explosive or otherwise dangerous substances, and generally preventing the unlawful acquisition of such substances; and (d) controlling the emission of noxious substances from premises of any class prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph."	No	No	Yes
HASAW 1(1)	The provisions of this Part shall have effect with a view to—	This Part shall have effect with a view to—	No	yes	Yes
HASAW 1(1)	"securing the health, safety and welfare of persons at work;"	securing the health of persons at work;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 1(1)	protecting persons other than persons at work against risks to health or safety arising out of or in connection with the activities of persons at work;	protecting other persons against risks to health arising out of the activities of persons at work;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 1(1)	"controlling the keeping and use of explosive or highly flammable or otherwise dangerous substances, and generally preventing the unlawful acquisition, possession and use of such substances; and"	"controlling the use of explosive or otherwise dangerous substances, and generally preventing the unlawful acquisition of such substances; and"	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 1(1)	controlling the emission into the atmosphere of noxious or offensive substances from premises of any class prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph.	controlling the emission of noxious substances from premises of any class prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph.	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 1(2)	"The provisions of this Part relating to the making of health and safety regulations and the preparation and approval of codes of practice shall in particular have effect with a view to enabling the enactments specified in the third column of Schedule 1 and the regulations, orders and other instruments in force under those enactments to be progressively replaced by a system of regulations and approved codes of practice operating in combination with the other provisions of this Part and designed to maintain or improve the standards of health, safety and welfare established by or under those enactments."	"The provisions of this Part relating to the making of health and safety regulations and the approval of codes of practice shall have effect with a view to enabling the enactments in the third column of Schedule 1 and the regulations in force under those enactments to be replaced by a system of regulations and codes of practice operating in combination with the other provisions of this Part and designed to improve the standards of health, safety and welfare established by those enactments."	No	No	No
HASAW 1(3)	"For the purposes of this Part risks arising out of or in connection with the activities of persons at work shall be treated as including risks attributable to the manner of conducting an undertaking, the plant or substances used for the purposes of an undertaking and the condition of premises so used or any part of them."	Risks arising out of the activities of persons at work shall be treated as including risks attributable to the manner of conducting an undertaking.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 1(4)	References in this Part to the general purposes of this Part are references to the purposes mentioned in subsection (1) above.	References to the general purposes of this Part are references to the purposes mentioned in subsection (1) above.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 2(1)	"It shall be the duty of every employer to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare at work of all his employees."	"It shall be the duty of every employer to ensure the health, safety and welfare at work of all his employees."	Yes	No	No
HASAW 2(2)	"Without prejudice to the generality of an employer’s duty under the preceding subsection, the matters to which that duty extends include in particular— (a) the provision and maintenance of plant and systems of work that are, so far as is reasonably practicable, safe and without risks to health; (b) arrangements for ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, safety and absence of risks to health in connection with the use, handling, storage and transport of articles and substances; (c) the provision of such information, instruction, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health and safety at work of his employees; (d) so far as is reasonably practicable as regards any place of work under the employer’s control, the maintenance of it in a condition that is safe and without risks to health and the provision and maintenance of means of access to and egress from it that are safe and without such risks; (e) the provision and maintenance of a working environment for his employees that is, so far as is reasonably practicable, safe, without risks to health, and adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for their welfare at work."	"Without prejudice to the generality of an employer’s duty under the preceding subsection, the matters to which that duty extends include— (a) the provision and maintenance of plant and systems of work that are safe and without risks to health; (b) arrangements for ensuring safety and absence of risks to health in connection with the use of articles and substances; (c) the provision of information to ensure the health and safety at work of his employees; (d) as regards any place of work under the employer’s control, the maintenance of it in a condition that is safe and without risks to health and the provision means of access to it that are safe and without such risks; (e) the provision of a working environment for his employees that is safe, without risks to health, and adequate as regards facilities for their welfare at work."	No	No	Yes
HASAW 2(2)	"Without prejudice to the generality of an employer’s duty under the preceding subsection, the matters to which that duty extends include in particular—"	"Without prejudice to the generality of an employer’s duty under the preceding subsection, the matters to which that duty extends include—"	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 2(2)	"the provision and maintenance of plant and systems of work that are, so far as is reasonably practicable, safe and without risks to health;"	the provision and maintenance of plant and systems of work that are safe and without risks to health;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 2(2)	"arrangements for ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, safety and absence of risks to health in connection with the use, handling, storage and transport of articles and substances;"	arrangements for ensuring safety and absence of risks to health in connection with the use of articles and substances;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 2(2)	"the provision of such information, instruction, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health and safety at work of his employees;"	the provision of information to ensure the health and safety at work of his employees;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 2(2)	"so far as is reasonably practicable as regards any place of work under the employer’s control, the maintenance of it in a condition that is safe and without risks to health and the provision and maintenance of means of access to and egress from it that are safe and without such risks;"	"as regards any place of work under the employer’s control, the maintenance of it in a condition that is safe and without risks to health and the provision means of access to it that are safe and without such risks;"	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 2(2)	"the provision and maintenance of a working environment for his employees that is, so far as is reasonably practicable, safe, without risks to health, and adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for their welfare at work."	"the provision of a working environment for his employees that is safe, without risks to health, and adequate as regards facilities for their welfare at work."	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 2(3)	"Except in such cases as may be prescribed, it shall be the duty of every employer to prepare and as often as may be appropriate revise a written statement of his general policy with respect to the health and safety at work of his employees and the organisation and arrangements for the time being in force for carrying out that policy, and to bring the statement and any revision of it to the notice of all of his employees."	"It shall be the duty of every employer to prepare a written statement of his policy with respect to health and safety at work and the arrangements in force for carrying out that policy, and to bring the statement to the notice of his employees."	Yes	No	No
HASAW 2(4)	"Regulations made by the Secretary of State may provide for the appointment in prescribed cases by recognised trade unions (within the meaning of the regulations) of safety representatives from amongst the employees, and those representatives shall represent the employees in consultations with the employers under subsection (6) below and shall have such other functions as may be prescribed."	"The Secretary of State may provide for the appointment by trade unions of safety representatives from amongst the employees, and those representatives shall represent the employees in consultations with the employers."	Yes	No	No
HASAW 2(6)	"It shall be the duty of every employer to consult any such representatives with a view to the making and maintenance of arrangements which will enable him and his employees to co-operate effectively in promoting and developing measures to ensure the health and safety at work of the employees, and in checking the effectiveness of such measures."	It shall be the duty of every employer to consult any such representatives with a view to the making of arrangements which will enable him and his employees to co-operate effectively in promoting measures to ensure the health and safety of the employees.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 2(7)	"In such cases as may be prescribed it shall be the duty of every employer, if requested to do so by the safety representatives mentioned in subsection (4) above, to establish, in accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State, a safety committee having the function of keeping under review the measures taken to ensure the health and safety at work of his employees and such other functions as may be prescribed."	"It shall be the duty of every employer, if requested to do so by the safety representatives, to establish a safety committee having the function of keeping under review the measures taken to ensure the health and safety of his employees."	Yes	No	No
HASAW 3(1)	"It shall be the duty of every employer to conduct his undertaking in such a way as to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that persons not in his employment who may be affected thereby are not thereby exposed to risks to their health or safety."	It shall be the duty of every employer to conduct his undertaking in such a way as to ensure that persons not in his employment who may be affected thereby are not exposed to risks to their health or safety.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 3(2)	"It shall be the duty of every self-employed person who conducts an undertaking of a prescribed description to conduct the undertaking in such a way as to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that he and other persons (not being his employees) who may be affected thereby are not thereby exposed to risks to their health or safety."	It shall be the duty of every self-employed person to ensure that he and other persons (not being his employees) who may be affected thereby are not exposed to risks to their health or safety.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 3(2A)	"A description of undertaking included in regulations under subsection (2) may be framed by reference to— (a) the type of activities carried out by the undertaking, where those activities are carried out or any other feature of the undertaking; (b) whether persons who may be affected by the conduct of the undertaking, other than the self-employed person (or his employees), may thereby be exposed to risks to their health or safety."	A description under subsection (2) may be framed by reference to— (a) the type of activities carried out by the undertaking or any other feature of the undertaking; (b) whether persons who may be affected by the conduct of the undertaking may thereby be exposed to risks to their health or safety.	No	No	Yes
HASAW 3(2A)	A description of undertaking included in regulations under subsection (2) may be framed by reference to—	A description under subsection (2) may be framed by reference to—	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 3(2A)	"the type of activities carried out by the undertaking, where those activities are carried out or any other feature of the undertaking;"	the type of activities carried out by the undertaking or any other feature of the undertaking;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 3(2A)	"whether persons who may be affected by the conduct of the undertaking, other than the self-employed person (or his employees), may thereby be exposed to risks to their health or safety."	whether persons who may be affected by the conduct of the undertaking may thereby be exposed to risks to their health or safety.	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 3(3)	"In such cases as may be prescribed, it shall be the duty of every employer and every self-employed person, in the prescribed circumstances and in the prescribed manner, to give to persons (not being his employees) who may be affected by the way in which he conducts his undertaking the prescribed information about such aspects of the way in which he conducts his undertaking as might affect their health or safety."	It shall be the duty of every employer and every self-employed person to give to persons (not being his employees) who may be affected by his undertaking information about the way his undertaking might affect their health or safety.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 4(1)	"This section has effect for imposing on persons duties in relation to those who— (a) are not their employees; but (b) use non-domestic premises made available to them as a place of work or as a place where they may use plant or substances provided for their use there, and applies to premises so made available and other non-domestic premises used in connection with them.
"	"This section has effect for imposing on persons duties in relation to those who— (a) are not their employees; but (b) use non-domestic premises made available to them as a place of work.
"	No	No	No
HASAW 4(2)	"It shall be the duty of each person who has, to any extent, control of premises to which this section applies or of the means of access thereto or egress therefrom or of any plant or substance in such premises to take such measures as it is reasonable for a person in his position to take to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the premises, all means of access thereto or egress therefrom available for use by persons using the premises, and any plant or substance in the premises or, as the case may be, provided for use there, is or are safe and without risks to health."	It shall be the duty of each person who has control of premises to which this section applies to take such measures to ensure that the premises is safe and without risks to health.	No	No	No
HASAW 4(3)	"Where a person has, by virtue of any contract or tenancy, an obligation of any extent in relation to— (a) the maintenance or repair of any premises to which this section applies or any means of access thereto or egress therefrom; or (b) the safety of or the absence of risks to health arising from plant or substances in any such premises; that person shall be treated, for the purposes of subsection (2) above, as being a person who has control of the matters to which his obligation extends."	Where a person has an obligation in relation to— (a) the maintenance of premises to which this section applies; or (b) the safety of plant or substances in such premises; that person shall be treated as being a person who has control of the matters to which his obligation extends.	No	No	Yes
HASAW 4(3)	"Where a person has, by virtue of any contract or tenancy, an obligation of any extent in relation to—"	Where a person has an obligation in relation to—	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 4(3)	the maintenance or repair of any premises to which this section applies or any means of access thereto or egress therefrom; or	the maintenance of premises to which this section applies; or	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 4(3)	the safety of or the absence of risks to health arising from plant or substances in any such premises;	the safety of plant or substances in such premises;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 4(3)	"that person shall be treated, for the purposes of subsection (2) above, as being a person who has control of the matters to which his obligation extends."	that person shall be treated as being a person who has control of the matters to which his obligation extends.	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 4(4)	"Any reference in this section to a person having control of any premises or matter is a reference to a person having control of the premises or matter in connection with the carrying on by him of a trade, business or other undertaking (whether for profit or not)."	Any reference to a person having control of any premises is a reference to a person having control of the premises in connection with a trade or other undertaking.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 5(1)	"Subject to subsection (5) below, it shall be the duty of the person having control of any premises of a class prescribed for the purposes of section 1(1)(d) to use the best practicable means for preventing the emission into the atmosphere from the premises of noxious or offensive substances and for rendering harmless and inoffensive such substances as may be so emitted."	It shall be the duty of the person having control of any premises to use the best practicable means for preventing the emission of noxious substances and for rendering harmless such substances as may be so emitted.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 5(2)	The reference in subsection (1) above to the means to be used for the purposes there mentioned includes a reference to the manner in which the plant provided for those purposes is used and to the supervision of any operation involving the emission of the substances to which that subsection applies.	The reference to the means to be used includes a reference to the manner in which the plant  is used and to the supervision of any operation involving the emission of substances.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 5(3)	"Any substance or a substance of any description prescribed for the purposes of subsection (1) above as noxious or offensive shall be a noxious or, as the case may be, an offensive substance for those purposes whether or not it would be so apart from this subsection."	Any substance prescribed for the purposes of subsection (1) as noxious shall be a noxious  substance for those purposes whether or not it would be so apart from this subsection.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 5(5)	The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any process which is a prescribed process as from the date which is the determination date for that process.	The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any process which is a prescribed process.	Yes	No	No
HASAW 5(6)	"For the purposes of subsection (5) above, the “determination date” for a prescribed process is— (a) in the case of a process for which an authorisation is granted, the date on which the enforcing authority grants it, whether in pursuance of the application or, on an appeal, of a direction to grant it; (b) in the case of a process for which an authorisation is refused, the date of the refusal or, on an appeal, of the affirmation of the refusal."	"The “determination date” for a prescribed process is— (a) in the case of a process for which an authorisation is granted, the date on which the enforcing authority grants it; (b) in the case of a process for which an authorisation is refused, the date of the refusal."	No	No	Yes
HASAW 5(6)	"For the purposes of subsection (5) above, the “determination date” for a prescribed process is—"	The “determination date” for a prescribed process is—	No	yes	No
HASAW 5(6)	"in the case of a process for which an authorisation is granted, the date on which the enforcing authority grants it, whether in pursuance of the application or, on an appeal, of a direction to grant it;"	"in the case of a process for which an authorisation is granted, the date on which the enforcing authority grants it;"	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 5(6)	"in the case of a process for which an authorisation is refused, the date of the refusal or, on an appeal, of the affirmation of the refusal."	"in the case of a process for which an authorisation is refused, the date of the refusal."	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 5(7)	"In subsections (5) and (6) above “authorisation”, “enforcing authority” and “prescribed process” have the meaning given in section 1 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 and the reference to an appeal is a reference to an appeal under section 15 of that Act."	"“Authorisation”, “enforcing authority” and “prescribed process” have the meaning given in the Environmental Protection Act 1990."	Yes	No	No
HASAW 6(1)	"It shall be the duty of any person who designs, manufactures, imports or supplies any article for use at work or any article of fairground equipment— (a) to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the article is so designed and constructed that it will be safe and without risks to health at all times when it is being set, used, cleaned or maintained by a person at work; (b) to carry out or arrange for the carrying out of such testing and examination as may be necessary for the performance of the duty imposed on him by the preceding paragraph; (c) to take such steps as are necessary to secure that persons supplied by that person with the article are provided with adequate information about the use for which the article is designed or has been tested and about any conditions necessary to ensure that it will be safe and without risks to health at all such times as are mentioned in paragraph (a) above and when it is being dismantled or disposed of; and (d) to take such steps as are necessary to secure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that persons so supplied are provided with all such revisions of information provided to them by virtue of the preceding paragraph as are necessary by reason of its becoming known that anything gives rise to a serious risk to health or safety."	It shall be the duty of any person who supplies any article for use at work or any article of fairground equipment— (a) to ensure that the article is so constructed that it will be safe and without risks to health; (b) to carry out such testing as may be necessary; (c) to take such steps as are necessary to secure that persons supplied with the article are provided with information about the article and about any conditions necessary to ensure that it will be safe and without risks to health; and (d) to take such steps as are necessary to secure that persons so supplied are provided with all such revisions of information provided to them by virtue of the preceding paragraph.	No	No	Yes
HASAW 6(1)	"It shall be the duty of any person who designs, manufactures, imports or supplies any article for use at work or any article of fairground equipment—"	It shall be the duty of any person who supplies any article for use at work or any article of fairground equipment—	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 6(1)	"to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the article is so designed and constructed that it will be safe and without risks to health at all times when it is being set, used, cleaned or maintained by a person at work;"	to ensure that the article is so constructed that it will be safe and without risks to health;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 6(1)	to carry out or arrange for the carrying out of such testing and examination as may be necessary for the performance of the duty imposed on him by the preceding paragraph;	to carry out such testing as may be necessary;	Yes	yes	No
HASAW 6(1)	to take such steps as are necessary to secure that persons supplied by that person with the article are provided with adequate information about the use for which the article is designed or has been tested and about any conditions necessary to ensure that it will be safe and without risks to health at all such times as are mentioned in paragraph (a) above and when it is being dismantled or disposed of; and	to take such steps as are necessary to secure that persons so supplied are provided with all such revisions of information provided to them by virtue of the preceding paragraph.	Yes	yes	No
SGA 1(1)	This Act applies to contracts of sale of goods made on or after (but not to those made before) 1 January 1894.	This Act applies to contracts of sale of goods made after 1 January 1894.	Yes	No	No
SGA 1(2)	"In relation to contracts made on certain dates, this Act applies subject to the modification of certain of its sections as mentioned in Schedule 1 below."	"In relation to contracts made on certain dates, this Act applies subject to Schedule 1."	Yes	No	No
SGA 1(3)	Any such modification is indicated in the section concerned by a reference to Schedule 1 below.	Any such modification is indicated in the section concerned.	Yes	No	No
SGA 1(4)	"Accordingly, where a section does not contain such a reference, this Act applies in relation to the contract concerned without such modification of the section."	"Accordingly, where a section does not contain such a reference, this Act applies without modification."	Yes	No	No
SGA 1(5)	Certain sections or subsections of this Act do not apply to a contract to which Chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 applies.	Certain sections of this Act do not apply to a contract to which the Consumer Rights Act 2015 applies.	Yes	No	No
SGA 1(6)	Where that is the case it is indicated in the section concerned.	Where that is the case it is indicated in the section.	Yes	No	No
SGA 2(1)	"A contract of sale of goods is a contract by which the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a money consideration, called the price."	A contract of sale of goods is a contract by which the seller transfers goods to the buyer for  money.	Yes	No	No
SGA 2(2)	There may be a contract of sale between one part owner and another.	There may be a contract of sale between one owner and another.	Yes	No	No
SGA 2(4)	Where under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer the contract is called a sale.	Where under a contract of sale the property is transferred from the seller to the buyer the contract is called a sale.	Yes	No	No
SGA 2(5)	Where under a contract of sale the transfer of the property in the goods is to take place at a future time or subject to some condition later to be fulfilled the contract is called an agreement to sell.	Where under a contract of sale the transfer of the property is to take place at a future time the contract is called an agreement to sell.	Yes	No	No
SGA 2(6)	An agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time elapses or the conditions are fulfilled subject to which the property in the goods is to be transferred.	An agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time elapses to which the property is to be transferred.	Yes	No	No
SGA 3(1)	Capacity to buy and sell is regulated by the general law concerning capacity to contract and to transfer and acquire property.	Capacity to buy and sell is regulated by the general law concerning capacity.	Yes	No	No
SGA 3(2)	"Where necessaries are sold and delivered to a minor or to a person who by reason of mental incapacity or drunkenness is incompetent to contract, he must pay a reasonable price for them."	"Where necessaries are sold to a person who is incompetent to contract, he must pay a reasonable price for them."	Yes	No	No
SGA 3(3)	In subsection (2) above “necessaries” means goods suitable to the condition in life of the minor or other person concerned and to his actual requirements at the time of the sale and delivery.	“necessaries” means goods suitable to the life of the person concerned.	Yes	No	No
SGA 4(1)	"Subject to this and any other Act, a contract of sale may be made in writing (either with or without seal), or by word of mouth, or partly in writing and partly by word of mouth, or may be implied from the conduct of the parties."	"A contract of sale may be made in writing, or by word of mouth, or may be implied from the conduct of the parties."	Yes	No	No
SGA 5(1)	"The goods which form the subject of a contract of sale may be either existing goods, owned or possessed by the seller, or goods to be manufactured or acquired by him after the making of the contract of sale, in this Act called future goods."	"The subject of a contract of sale may be either existing goods, or goods to be manufactured  after the making of contract."	Yes	No	No
SGA 5(2)	There may be a contract for the sale of goods the acquisition of which by the seller depends on a contingency which may or may not happen.	There may be a contract for the sale of goods which depends on a contingency which may or may not happen.	Yes	No	No
SGA 6	"Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods, and the goods without the knowledge of the seller have perished at the time when the contract is made, the contract is void.
"	"Where there is a contract for the sale of goods, and the goods have perished, the contract is void.
"	Yes	No	No
SGA 7	"Where there is an agreement to sell specific goods and subsequently the goods, without any fault on the part of the seller or buyer, perish before the risk passes to the buyer, the agreement is avoided.
"	"Where there is an agreement to sell goods and the goods, without any fault of the seller or buyer, perish before the risk passes, the agreement is avoided.
"	Yes	No	No
SGA 8(1)	"The price in a contract of sale may be fixed by the contract, or may be left to be fixed in a manner agreed by the contract, or may be determined by the course of dealing between the parties."	"The price in a contract of sale may be fixed, or may be left to be fixed, or may be determined by the course of dealing between the parties."	Yes	No	No
SGA 8(2)	Where the price is not determined as mentioned in sub-section (1) above the buyer must pay a reasonable price.	Where the price is not determined the buyer must pay a reasonable price.	Yes	No	No
SGA 8(3)	What is a reasonable price is a question of fact dependent on the circumstances of each particular case.	A reasonable price is a question of fact dependent on the circumstances.	Yes	No	No
SGA 9(1)	"Where there is an agreement to sell goods on the terms that the price is to be fixed by the valuation of a third party, and he cannot or does not make the valuation, the agreement is avoided; but if the goods or any part of them have been delivered to and appropriated by the buyer he must pay a reasonable price for them."	"Where the price is to be fixed by the valuation of a third party, and he does not make the valuation, the agreement is avoided; but if the goods have been delivered to the buyer he must pay a reasonable price for them."	No	No	Yes
SGA 9(1)	"Where there is an agreement to sell goods on the terms that the price is to be fixed by the valuation of a third party, and he cannot or does not make the valuation, the agreement is avoided;"	"Where the price is to be fixed by the valuation of a third party, and he does not make the valuation, the agreement is avoided;"	Yes	yes	No
SGA 9(1)	but if the goods or any part of them have been delivered to and appropriated by the buyer he must pay a reasonable price for them.	but if the goods have been delivered to the buyer he must pay a reasonable price for them.	Yes	yes	No
SGA 10(1)	"Unless a different intention appears from the terms of the contract, stipulations as to time of payment are not of the essence of a contract of sale."	"Unless a different intention appears, stipulations as to time of payment are not of the essence of a contract."	Yes	No	No
SGA 10(2)	Whether any other stipulation as to time is or is not of the essence of the contract depends on the terms of the contract.	Whether any other stipulation as to time is of the essence depends on the terms of the contract.	Yes	No	No
SGA 10(3)	In a contract of sale “month” prima facie means calendar month.	In a contract of sale “month” means calendar month.	Yes	No	No
SGA 11(2)	"Where a contract of sale is subject to a condition to be fulfilled by the seller, the buyer may waive the condition, or may elect to treat the breach of the condition as a breach of warranty and not as a ground for treating the contract as repudiated."	"Where a contract of sale is subject to a condition to be fulfilled by the seller, the buyer may waive the condition, or may treat the breach as a breach of warranty."	Yes	No	No
SGA 11(3)	"Whether a stipulation in a contract of sale is a condition, the breach of which may give rise to a right to treat the contract as repudiated, or a warranty, the breach of which may give rise to a claim for damages but not to a right to reject the goods and treat the contract as repudiated, depends in each case on the construction of the contract; and a stipulation may be a condition, though called a warranty in the contract."	Whether a stipulation is a condition or a warranty depends on the construction of the contract.	No	No	Yes
SGA 11(3)	"Whether a stipulation in a contract of sale is a condition, the breach of which may give rise to a right to treat the contract as repudiated,"	Whether a stipulation is a condition	Yes	yes	No
SGA 11(3)	"or a warranty, the breach of which may give rise to a claim for damages but not to a right to reject the goods and treat the contract as repudiated,"	or a warranty	Yes	yes	No
SGA 11(3)	"depends in each case on the construction of the contract; and a stipulation may be a condition, though called a warranty in the contract."	depends on the construction of the contract.	Yes	yes	No
SGA 11(4)	"Subject to section 35A below where a contract of sale is not severable and the buyer has accepted the goods or part of them, the breach of a condition to be fulfilled by the seller can only be treated as a breach of warranty, and not as a ground for rejecting the goods and treating the contract as repudiated, unless there is an express or implied term of the contract to that effect."	"Where a contract of sale is not severable and the buyer has accepted the goods, the breach of a condition by the seller can only be treated as a breach of warranty, unless there is an express term of the contract to that effect."	Yes	No	No
SGA 11(4A)	Subsection (4) does not apply to a contract to which Chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 applies (but see the provision made about such contracts in sections 19 to 22 of that Act).	Subsection (4) does not apply to a contract to which the Consumer Rights Act 2015 applies.	No	No	No
SGA 11(6)	Nothing in this section affects a condition or warranty whose fulfilment is excused by law by reason of impossibility or otherwise.	Nothing in this section affects a condition or warranty whose fulfilment is excused by law.	Yes	No	No
SGA 11(7)	Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 below applies in relation to a contract made before 22 April 1967 or (in the application of this Act to Northern Ireland) 28 July 1967.	Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 applies in relation to a contract made before 22 April 1967.	No	No	No
SGA 12(1)	"In a contract of sale, other than one to which subsection (3) below applies, there is an implied term on the part of the seller that in the case of a sale he has a right to sell the goods, and in the case of an agreement to sell he will have such a right at the time when the property is to pass."	In a contract of sale there is an implied term on the part of the seller that he has a right to sell the goods.	No	No	Yes
SGA 12(1)	"In a contract of sale, other than one to which subsection (3) below applies, there is an implied term on the part of the seller that in the case of a sale he has a right to sell the goods,"	In a contract of sale there is an implied term on the part of the seller that he has a right to sell the goods.	Yes	yes	No
SGA 12(2)	"In a contract of sale, other than one to which subsection (3) below applies, there is also an implied term that— (a) the goods are free, and will remain free until the time when the property is to pass, from any charge or encumbrance not disclosed or known to the buyer before the contract is made, and (b) the buyer will enjoy quiet possession of the goods except so far as it may be disturbed by the owner or other person entitled to the benefit of any charge or encumbrance so disclosed or known."	"In a contract of sale there is also an implied term that— (a) the goods are free from any charge or encumbrance not disclosed, and (b) the buyer will enjoy possession of the goods except as it may be disturbed by any charge or encumbrance so disclosed."	No	No	Yes
SGA 12(2)	"In a contract of sale, other than one to which subsection (3) below applies, there is also an implied term that—"	In a contract of sale there is also an implied term that—	Yes	yes	No
SGA 12(2)	"the goods are free, and will remain free until the time when the property is to pass, from any charge or encumbrance not disclosed or known to the buyer before the contract is made, and"	"the goods are free from any charge or encumbrance not disclosed, and"	Yes	yes	No
SGA 12(2)	the buyer will enjoy quiet possession of the goods except so far as it may be disturbed by the owner or other person entitled to the benefit of any charge or encumbrance so disclosed or known.	the buyer will enjoy possession of the goods except as it may be disturbed by any charge or encumbrance so disclosed.	Yes	yes	No
SGA 12(3)	This subsection applies to a contract of sale in the case of which there appears from the contract or is to be inferred from its circumstances an intention that the seller should transfer only such title as he or a third person may have.	This subsection applies to a contract of sale in the case of which there is an intention that the seller should transfer only such title as he may have.	Yes	No	No
SGA 12(4)	In a contract to which subsection (3) above applies there is an implied term that all charges or encumbrances known to the seller and not known to the buyer have been disclosed to the buyer before the contract is made.	In a contract there is an implied term that all charges or encumbrances known to the seller have been disclosed to the buyer.	Yes	No	No
SGA 12(5)	"In a contract to which subsection (3) above applies there is also an implied term that none of the following will disturb the buyer’s quiet possession of the goods, namely— (a) the seller; (b) in a case where the parties to the contract intend that the seller should transfer only such title as a third person may have, that person; (c) anyone claiming through or under the seller or that third person otherwise than under a charge or encumbrance disclosed or known to the buyer before the contract is made."	"In a contract there is also an implied term that none of the following will disturb the buyer’s possession of the goods— (a) the seller; (b) in a case where the parties to the contract intend that the seller should transfer only such title as a third person may have, that person; (c) anyone claiming through the seller or that third person otherwise than under a charge or encumbrance disclosed."	No	No	Yes
SGA 12(5)	anyone claiming through or under the seller or that third person otherwise than under a charge or encumbrance disclosed or known to the buyer before the contract is made.	anyone claiming through the seller or that third person otherwise than under a charge or encumbrance disclosed.	Yes	yes	No
SGA 12(5A)	"As regards England and Wales and Northern Ireland, the term implied by subsection (1) above is a condition and the terms implied by subsections (2), (4) and (5) above are warranties."	"The term implied by subsection (1) above is a condition and the terms implied by subsections (2), (4) and (5) above are warranties."	Yes	No	No
SGA 13(3)	"A sale of goods is not prevented from being a sale by description by reason only that, being exposed for sale or hire, they are selected by the buyer."	A sale of goods is not prevented from being a sale by description by reason only that they are selected by the buyer.	Yes	No	No
CA 1(2)	"In any proceedings in which any question with respect to the upbringing of a child arises, the court shall have regard to the general principle that any delay in determining the question is likely to prejudice the welfare of the child."	"In any proceedings in which the upbringing of a child arises, the court shall have regard to the general principle that any delay is likely to prejudice the welfare of the child."	Yes	No	No
CA 1(2A)	"A court, in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (4)(a) or (7), is as respects each parent within subsection (6)(a) to presume, unless the contrary is shown, that involvement of that parent in the life of the child concerned will further the child's welfare."	"A court, is as respects each parent within subsection (6)(a) to presume that involvement of that parent in the life of the child will further the child's welfare."	Yes	No	No
CA 1(2B)	"In subsection (2A) “involvement” means involvement of some kind, either direct or indirect, but not any particular division of a child's time."	“involvement” means involvement of some kind but not any particular division of time.	Yes	No	No
CA 1(3)	"In the circumstances mentioned in subsection (4), a court shall have regard in particular to— (a) the ascertainable wishes and feelings of the child concerned (considered in the light of his age and understanding); (b) his physical, emotional and educational needs; (c) the likely effect on him of any change in his circumstances; (d) his age, sex, background and any characteristics of his which the court considers relevant; (e) any harm which he has suffered or is at risk of suffering; (f) how capable each of his parents, and any other person in relation to whom the court considers the question to be relevant, is of meeting his needs; (g) the range of powers available to the court under this Act in the proceedings in question."	"A court shall have regard to— (a) the wishes and feelings of the child; (b) his physical, emotional and educational needs; (c) the likely effect on him of any change in his circumstances; (d) his age, sex, background and any characteristics of his which the court considers relevant; (e) any harm which he has suffered or is at risk of suffering; (f) how capable each of his parents is of meeting his needs; (g) the range of powers available to the court."	No	No	Yes
CA 1(3)	"In the circumstances mentioned in subsection (4), a court shall have regard in particular to—"	A court shall have regard to—	Yes	yes	No
CA 1(3)	the ascertainable wishes and feelings of the child concerned (considered in the light of his age and understanding)	the wishes and feelings of the child	Yes	yes	No
CA 1(3)	the range of powers available to the court under this Act in the proceedings in question.	the range of powers available to the court.	Yes	yes	No
CA 1(4)	"The circumstances are that— (a) the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge a section 8 order, and the making, variation or discharge of the order is opposed by any party to the proceedings; or (b) the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge a special guardianship order or an order under Part IV."	"The circumstances are that— (a) the court is considering whether to make a section 8 order, and the making of the order is opposed; or (b) the court is considering whether to make a special guardianship order or an order under Part IV."	No	No	Yes
CA 1(5)	"Where a court is considering whether or not to make one or more orders under this Act with respect to a child, it shall not make the order or any of the orders unless it considers that doing so would be better for the child than making no order at all."	"Where a court is considering whether or not to make one or more orders, it shall not make the order unless it considers that doing so would be better for the child than making no order at all."	Yes	No	No
CA 1(6)	"In subsection (2A) “parent” means parent of the child concerned; and, for the purposes of that subsection, a parent of the child concerned— (a) is within this paragraph if that parent can be involved in the child's life in a way that does not put the child at risk of suffering harm; and (b) is to be treated as being within paragraph (a) unless there is some evidence before the court in the particular proceedings to suggest that involvement of that parent in the child's life would put the child at risk of suffering harm whatever the form of the involvement."	“parent” means parent of the child; and a parent— (a) is within this paragraph if that parent can be involved in the child's life in a way that does not put the child at risk; and (b) is within paragraph (a) unless there is some evidence to suggest that involvement of that parent in the child's life would put the child at risk.	No	No	Yes
CA 1(6)	"In subsection (2A) “parent” means parent of the child concerned; and, for the purposes of that subsection, a parent of the child concerned—"	“parent” means parent of the child; and a parent—	Yes	yes	No
CA 1(6)	is within this paragraph if that parent can be involved in the child's life in a way that does not put the child at risk of suffering harm; and	is within this paragraph if that parent can be involved in the child's life in a way that does not put the child at risk; and	Yes	yes	No
CA 1(6)	is to be treated as being within paragraph (a) unless there is some evidence before the court in the particular proceedings to suggest that involvement of that parent in the child's life would put the child at risk of suffering harm whatever the form of the involvement.	is within paragraph (a) unless there is some evidence to suggest that involvement of that parent in the child's life would put the child at risk.	Yes	yes	No
CA 1(7)	The circumstances referred to are that the court is considering whether to make an order under section 4(1)(c) or (2A) or 4ZA(1)(c) or (5) (parental responsibility of parent other than mother).	The circumstances referred to are that the court is considering whether to make an order under section 4(1)(c) or (2A) or 4ZA(1)(c) or (5).	No	No	No
CA 2(1)	"Where a child’s father and mother were married to each other at the time of his birth, they shall each have parental responsibility for the child."	"Where a child’s father and mother were married at the time of his birth, they each have parental responsibility for the child."	Yes	No	No
CA 2(2)	Where a child’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his birth— (a) the mother shall have parental responsibility for the child; (b) the father shall have parental responsibility for the child if he has acquired it (and has not ceased to have it) in accordance with the provisions of this Act.	Where a child’s father and mother were not married at the time of his birth— (a) the mother shall have parental responsibility for the child; (b) the father shall have parental responsibility for the child if he has acquired it in accordance with this Act.	No	No	Yes
CA 2(2)	Where a child’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his birth—	Where a child’s father and mother were not married at the time of his birth—	Yes	yes	No
CA 2(2)	the father shall have parental responsibility for the child if he has acquired it (and has not ceased to have it) in accordance with the provisions of this Act.	the father shall have parental responsibility for the child if he has acquired it in accordance with this Act.	No	yes	No
CA 2(3)	"References in this Act to a child whose father and mother were, or (as the case may be) were not, married to each other at the time of his birth must be read with section 1 of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 (which extends their meaning)."	"References to a child whose father and mother were, or were not, married at the time of his birth must be read with section 1 of the Family Law Reform Act 1987."	Yes	No	No
CA 2(4)	The rule of law that a father is the natural guardian of his legitimate child is abolished.	The rule that a father is the guardian of his child is abolished.	Yes	No	No
CA 2(5)	More than one person may have parental responsibility for the same child at the same time.	More than one person may have parental responsibility for the same child.	Yes	No	No
CA 2(6)	A person who has parental responsibility for a child at any time shall not cease to have that responsibility solely because some other person subsequently acquires parental responsibility for the child.	A person who has parental responsibility for a child shall not cease to have responsibility solely because some other person acquires parental responsibility for the child.	Yes	No	No
CA 2(7)	"Where more than one person has parental responsibility for a child, each of them may act alone and without the other (or others) in meeting that responsibility; but nothing in this Part shall be taken to affect the operation of any enactment which requires the consent of more than one person in a matter affecting the child."	"Where more than one person has parental responsibility for a child, each of them may act alone in meeting that responsibility; but nothing shall be taken to affect any enactment which requires the consent of more than one person."	Yes	No	No
CA 2(8)	The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not entitle him to act in any way which would be incompatible with any order made with respect to the child under this Act.	The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not entitle him to act in any way which would be incompatible with any order made under this Act.	Yes	No	No
CA 2(9)	A person who has parental responsibility for a child may not surrender or transfer any part of that responsibility to another but may arrange for some or all of it to be met by one or more persons acting on his behalf.	A person who has parental responsibility may not transfer any part of that responsibility but may arrange for some of it to be met by one or more persons acting on his behalf.	Yes	No	No
CA 2(10)	The person with whom any such arrangement is made may himself be a person who already has parental responsibility for the child concerned.	The person with whom any such arrangement is made may himself be a person who already has parental responsibility for the child.	Yes	No	No
CA 2(11)	The making of any such arrangement shall not affect any liability of the person making it which may arise from any failure to meet any part of his parental responsibility for the child concerned.	Any such arrangement shall not affect any liability of the person making it for the child concerned.	Yes	No	No
CA 3(1)	"In this Act “parental responsibility” means all the rights, duties, powers, responsibilities and authority which by law a parent of a child has in relation to the child and his property."	“parental responsibility” means all the responsibilities and authority which by law a parent of a child has in relation to the child.	Yes	No	No
CA 3(2)	"It also includes the rights, powers and duties which a guardian of the child’s estate (appointed, before the commencement of section 5, to act generally) would have had in relation to the child and his property."	It also includes the powers and duties which a guardian of the child’s estate would have had in relation to the child.	No	No	No
CA 3(3)	"The rights referred to in subsection (2) include, in particular, the right of the guardian to receive or recover in his own name, for the benefit of the child, property of whatever description and wherever situated which the child is entitled to receive or recover."	"Rights include the right of the guardian to receive, for the benefit of the child, property which the child is entitled to receive."	Yes	No	No
CA 3(4)	"The fact that a person has, or does not have, parental responsibility for a child shall not affect— (a) any obligation which he may have in relation to the child (such as a statutory duty to maintain the child); or (b) any rights which, in the event of the child’s death, he (or any other person) may have in relation to the child’s property."	"The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not affect— (a) any obligation which he may have in relation to the child; or (b) any rights which, in the event of the child’s death, he may have in relation to the child’s property."	No	No	Yes
CA 3(4)	"The fact that a person has, or does not have, parental responsibility for a child shall not affect—"	The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not affect—	Yes	yes	No
CA 3(4)	any obligation which he may have in relation to the child (such as a statutory duty to maintain the child); or	any obligation which he may have in relation to the child; or	No	yes	No
CA 3(4)	"any rights which, in the event of the child’s death, he (or any other person) may have in relation to the child’s property."	"any rights which, in the event of the child’s death, he may have in relation to the child’s property."	Yes	yes	No
CA 3(5)	"A person who— (a) does not have parental responsibility for a particular child; but (b) has care of the child, may (subject to the provisions of this Act) do what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the child’s welfare.
"	"A person who— (a) does not have parental responsibility for a child; but (b) has care of the child, may do what is reasonable for the purpose of safeguarding the child’s welfare.
"	No	No	Yes
CA 3(5)	does not have parental responsibility for a particular child; but	does not have parental responsibility for a child; but	Yes	yes	No
CA 3(5)	may (subject to the provisions of this Act) do what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the child’s welfare.	may do what is reasonable for the purpose of safeguarding the child’s welfare.	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(1)	"Where a child’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his birth, the father shall acquire parental responsibility for the child if— (a) he becomes registered as the child’s father under any of the enactments specified in subsection (1A); (b) he and the child’s mother make an agreement (a “parental responsibility agreement”) providing for him to have parental responsibility for the child; or (c) the court, on his application, orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child."	"Where a child’s father and mother were not married at the time of his birth, the father shall acquire parental responsibility if— (a) he becomes registered as the child’s father; (b) he and the child’s mother make an agreement providing for him to have parental responsibility for the child; or (c) the court orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child."	No	No	Yes
CA 4(1)	"Where a child’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his birth, the father shall acquire parental responsibility for the child if—"	"Where a child’s father and mother were not married at the time of his birth, the father shall acquire parental responsibility if—"	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(1)	he becomes registered as the child’s father under any of the enactments specified in subsection (1A)	he becomes registered as the child’s father	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(1)	he and the child’s mother make an agreement (a “parental responsibility agreement”) providing for him to have parental responsibility for the child; or	he and the child’s mother make an agreement providing for him to have parental responsibility for the child; or	No	yes	No
CA 4(1)	"the court, on his application, orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child."	the court orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child.	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(1A)	"The enactments referred to in subsection (1)(a) are— (a) paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 10(1) and of section 10A(1) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953; (b) paragraphs (a), (b)(i) and (c) of section 18(1), and sections 18(2)(b) and 20(1)(a) of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965; and (c) sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article 14(3) of the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976."	"The enactments referred to in subsection (1)(a) are— (a) the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953; (b) the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965; and (c)  the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976."	No	No	Yes
CA 4(1A)	"paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 10(1) and of section 10A(1) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953"	the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(1A)	"paragraphs (a), (b)(i) and (c) of section 18(1), and sections 18(2)(b) and 20(1)(a) of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965; and"	"the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965"	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(1A)	"sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article 14(3) of the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976."	the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976.	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(1B)	The Secretary of State may by order amend subsection (1A) so as to add further enactments to the list in that subsection.	The Secretary of State may amend subsection (1A) to add further enactments.	Yes	No	No
CA 4(2)	"No parental responsibility agreement shall have effect for the purposes of this Act unless— (a) it is made in the form prescribed by regulations made by the Lord Chancellor; and (b) where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such agreements must be recorded, it is recorded in the prescribed manner."	"No parental responsibility agreement shall have effect unless— (a) it is made in the form prescribed by regulations; and (b) where regulations are made, it is recorded in the prescribed manner."	No	No	Yes
CA 4(2)	No parental responsibility agreement shall have effect for the purposes of this Act unless—	No parental responsibility agreement shall have effect unless—	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(2)	it is made in the form prescribed by regulations made by the Lord Chancellor; and	it is made in the form prescribed by regulations; and	Yes	yes	No
CA 4(2)	"where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such agreements must be recorded, it is recorded in the prescribed manner."	"where regulations are made, it is recorded in the prescribed manner."	Yes	yes	No
CMA 1(1)	"A person is guilty of an offence if— (a) he causes a computer to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any computer, or to enable any such access to be secured; (b) the access he intends to secure, or to enable to be secured, is unauthorised; and (c) he knows at the time when he causes the computer to perform the function that that is the case."	A person is guilty of an offence if— (a) he causes a computer to perform any function with intent to access any data held in any computer; (b) the access is unauthorised; and (c) he knows that that is the case.	No	No	Yes
CMA 1(1)	"he causes a computer to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any computer, or to enable any such access to be secured"	he causes a computer to perform any function with intent to access any data held in any computer	Yes	yes	No
CMA 1(1)	"the access he intends to secure, or to enable to be secured, is unauthorised; and"	the access is unauthorised	Yes	yes	No
CMA 1(1)	he knows at the time when he causes the computer to perform the function that that is the case.	he knows that that is the case.	Yes	yes	No
CMA 1(3)	"A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable— (a) on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both; (b) on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both; (c) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine or to both."	"A person guilty of an offence shall be liable— (a) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both; (b) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine or to both."	No	No	Yes
CMA 1(3)	A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable—	A person guilty of an offence shall be liable—	Yes	yes	No
CMA 1(3)	"(a) on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both; (b) on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both"	"(a) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both"	No	yes	No
CMA 2(1)	"A person is guilty of an offence under this section if he commits an offence under section 1 above (“the unauthorised access offence”) with intent— (a) to commit an offence to which this section applies; or (b) to facilitate the commission of such an offence (whether by himself or by any other person); and the offence he intends to commit or facilitate is referred to below in this section as the further offence.
"	"A person is guilty of an offence if he commits an offence under section 1 with intent— (a) to commit an offence to which this section applies; or (b) to facilitate the commission of such an offence; and the offence he intends to commit or facilitate is referred to below as the further offence.
"	No	No	Yes
CMA 2(1)	A person is guilty of an offence under this section if he commits an offence under section 1 above (“the unauthorised access offence”) with intent—	A person is guilty of an offence if he commits an offence under section 1 with intent—	No	yes	No
CMA 2(1)	to commit an offence to which this section applies; or	to commit an offence to which this section applies; or	No	yes	No
CMA 2(1)	to facilitate the commission of such an offence (whether by himself or by any other person);	to facilitate the commission of such an offence;	No	yes	No
CMA 2(1)	and the offence he intends to commit or facilitate is referred to below in this section as the further offence.	and the offence he intends to commit or facilitate is referred to below as the further offence.	No	yes	No
CMA 2(2)	"This section applies to offences— (a) for which the sentence is fixed by law; or (b) for which a person who has attained the age of twenty-one years (eighteen in relation to England and Wales) and has no previous convictions may be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of five years (or, in England and Wales, might be so sentenced but for the restrictions imposed by section 33 of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980)."	This section applies to offences— (a) for which the sentence is fixed by law; or (b) for which a person who has attained the age of eighteen and has no previous convictions may be sentenced to imprisonment for five years.	No	No	Yes
CMA 2(2)	"for which a person who has attained the age of twenty-one years (eighteen in relation to England and Wales) and has no previous convictions may be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of five years (or, in England and Wales, might be so sentenced but for the restrictions imposed by section 33 of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980)."	for which a person who has attained the age of eighteen and has no previous convictions may be sentenced to imprisonment for five years.	No	yes	No
CMA 2(3)	It is immaterial for the purposes of this section whether the further offence is to be committed on the same occasion as the unauthorised access offence or on any future occasion.	It is immaterial whether the further offence is committed on the same occasion as the unauthorised access offence.	Yes	yes	No
CMA 2(5)	"A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable— (a) on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both; (b) on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both; (c) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine or to both."	"A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable— (a) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both; (b) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine or to both."	No	No	Yes
CMA 2(5)	"on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both; (b) on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both"	"on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both"	No	yes	No
CMA 3(1)	A person is guilty of an offence if— (a) he does any unauthorised act in relation to a computer; (b) at the time when he does the act he knows that it is unauthorised; and (c) either subsection (2) or subsection (3) below applies.	A person is guilty of an offence if— (a) he does any unauthorised act in relation to a computer; (b) he knows that it is unauthorised; and (c) either subsection (2) or subsection (3) below applies.	No	No	Yes
CMA 3(1)	at the time when he does the act he knows that it is unauthorised; and	he does any unauthorised act in relation to a computer;	Yes	yes	No
CMA 3(2)	This subsection applies if the person intends by doing the act— (a) to impair the operation of any computer; (b) to prevent or hinder access to any program or data held in any computer; or (c) to impair the operation of any such program or the reliability of any such data; or (d) to enable any of the things mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c) above to be done.	This subsection applies if the person intends— (a) to impair the operation of any computer; (b) to prevent access to any data held in any computer; or (c) to impair the reliability of any such data; or (d) to enable any of the things mentioned above to be done.	No	No	Yes
CMA 3(2)	This subsection applies if the person intends by doing the act—	This subsection applies if the person intends—	Yes	yes	No
CMA 3(2)	to impair the operation of any computer	to impair the operation of any computer	Yes	yes	No
CMA 3(2)	to prevent or hinder access to any program or data held in any computer; or	to prevent access to any data held in any computer; or	Yes	yes	No
CMA 3(2)	to impair the operation of any such program or the reliability of any such data; or	to impair the reliability of any such data; or	Yes	yes	No
CMA 3(2)	to enable any of the things mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c) above to be done.	to enable any of the things mentioned above to be done.	Yes	yes	No
CMA 3(3)	This subsection applies if the person is reckless as to whether the act will do any of the things mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) to (c) of subsection (2) above.	This subsection applies if the person is reckless as to whether the act will do any of the things mentioned above.	Yes	No	No
CMA 3(5)	"In this section— (a) a reference to doing an act includes a reference to causing an act to be done; (b) “act” includes a series of acts; (c) a reference to impairing, preventing or hindering something includes a reference to doing so temporarily."	In this section— (a) a reference to doing an act includes causing an act to be done; (b) “act” includes a series of acts; (c) a reference to preventing something includes doing so temporarily.	No	No	Yes
CMA 3(5)	a reference to doing an act includes a reference to causing an act to be done;	a reference to doing an act includes causing an act to be done;	Yes	yes	No
CMA 3(5)	"a reference to impairing, preventing or hindering something includes a reference to doing so temporarily."	a reference to preventing something includes doing so temporarily.	Yes	yes	No
CMA 4(1)	"Except as provided below in this section, it is immaterial for the purposes of any offence under section 1, 3 or 3ZA above— (a) whether any act or other event proof of which is required for conviction of the offence occurred in the home country concerned; or (b) whether the accused was in the home country concerned at the time of any such act or event."	"Except as provided below, it is immaterial for any offence under section 1, 3 or 3ZA above— (a) whether any act occurred in the home country; or (b) whether the accused was in the home country."	No	No	Yes
CMA 4(1)	"Except as provided below in this section, it is immaterial for the purposes of any offence under section 1, 3 or 3ZA above—"	"Except as provided below, it is immaterial for any offence under section 1, 3 or 3ZA above—"	Yes	yes	No
CMA 4(1)	whether any act or other event proof of which is required for conviction of the offence occurred in the home country concerned; or	whether any act occurred in the home country; or	Yes	yes	No
CMA 4(1)	whether the accused was in the home country concerned at the time of any such act or event.	whether the accused was in the home country.	Yes	yes	No
CMA 4(2)	"Subject to subsection (3) below, in the case of such an offence at least one significant link with domestic jurisdiction must exist in the circumstances of the case for the offence to be committed."	"Subject to subsection (3) below, in the case of such an offence at least one significant link with domestic jurisdiction must exist."	Yes	No	No
CMA 4(3)	There is no need for any such link to exist for the commission of an offence under section 1 above to be established in proof of an allegation to that effect in proceedings for an offence under section 2 above.	There is no need for any such link to be established in an allegation to that effect in proceedings for an offence under section 2 above.	Yes	No	No
CMA 4(4)	"Subject to section 8 below, where— (a) any such link does in fact exist in the case of an offence under section 1 above; and (b) commission of that offence is alleged in proceedings for an offence under section 2 above; section 2 above shall apply as if anything the accused intended to do or facilitate in any place outside the home country concerned which would be an offence to which section 2 applies if it took place in the home country concerned were the offence in question.
"	"Subject to section 8 below, where— (a) any such link does exist in the case of an offence under section 1; and (b) that offence is alleged in proceedings for an offence under section 2; section 2 shall apply as if anything the accused intended to do outside the home country which would be an offence to which section 2 applies were the offence in question.
"	No	No	Yes
CMA 4(4)	commission of that offence is alleged in proceedings for an offence under section 2 above;	that offence is alleged in proceedings for an offence under section 2;	Yes	yes	No
CMA 4(4)	commission of that offence is alleged in proceedings for an offence under section 2 above;	that offence is alleged in proceedings for an offence under section 2;	No	yes	No
CMA 4(4)	section 2 above shall apply as if anything the accused intended to do or facilitate in any place outside the home country concerned which would be an offence to which section 2 applies if it took place in the home country concerned were the offence in question.	section 2 shall apply as if anything the accused intended to do outside the home country which would be an offence to which section 2 applies were the offence in question.	Yes	yes	No
CMA 4(4A)	It is immaterial for the purposes of an offence under section 3A whether the accused was in the home country concerned at the time of any act or other event proof of which is required for conviction of the offence if there is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction in relation to the offence.	It is immaterial for an offence under section 3A whether the accused was in the home country if there is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction.	Yes	No	No
CMA 5(1)	The following provisions of this section apply for the interpretation of section 4 above.	The provisions of this section apply for the interpretation of section 4.	Yes	No	No
CMA 5(1A)	"In relation to an offence under section 1, 3, 3ZA or 3A, where the accused was in a country outside the United Kingdom at the time of the act constituting the offence there is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction if— (a) the accused was a United Kingdom national at that time; and (b) the act constituted an offence under the law of the country in which it occurred."	"In relation to an offence under section 1, 3, 3ZA or 3A, where the accused was outside the United Kingdom there is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction if— (a) the accused was a United Kingdom national; and (b) the act constituted an offence under the law of the country in which it occurred."	No	No	Yes
CMA 5(1A)	"In relation to an offence under section 1, 3, 3ZA or 3A, where the accused was in a country outside the United Kingdom at the time of the act constituting the offence there is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction if—"	"In relation to an offence under section 1, 3, 3ZA or 3A, where the accused was outside the United Kingdom there is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction if—"	Yes	yes	No
CMA 5(1A)	the accused was a United Kingdom national at that time; and	the accused was a United Kingdom national; and	Yes	yes	No
CMA 5(1A)	the act constituted an offence under the law of the country in which it occurred.	the act constituted an offence under the law of the country in which it occurred.	Yes	yes	No
CMA 5(2)	"In relation to an offence under section 1, either of the following is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction— (a) that the accused was in the home country concerned at the time when he did the act which caused the computer to perform the function; or (b) that any computer containing any program or data to which the accused by doing that act secured or intended to secure unauthorised access, or enabled or intended to enable unauthorised access to be secured, was in the home country concerned at that time."	"Under section 1, either of the following is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction— (a) that the accused was in the home country when he did the act; or (b) that any computer containing any data to which the accused secured unauthorised access was in the home country."	No	No	No
CMA 5(2)	"In relation to an offence under section 1, either of the following is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction—"	"Under section 1, either of the following is a significant link with domestic jurisdiction—"	Yes	yes	No
CMA 5(2)	that the accused was in the home country concerned at the time when he did the act which caused the computer to perform the function; or	that the accused was in the home country when he did the act; or	Yes	yes	No
CMA 5(2)	"that any computer containing any program or data to which the accused by doing that act secured or intended to secure unauthorised access, or enabled or intended to enable unauthorised access to be secured, was in the home country concerned at that time."	that any computer containing any data to which the accused secured unauthorised access was in the home country.	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(1)	"Where an employee begins employment with an employer, the employer shall give to the employee a written statement of particulars of employment."	"Where an employee begins employment, the employer shall give a written statement of employment."	Yes	No	No
ERA 1(2)	The statement may (subject to section 2(4)) be given in instalments and (whether or not given in instalments) shall be given not later than two months after the beginning of the employment.	The statement may be given in instalments and shall be given not later than two months after the beginning of the employment.	No	No	No
ERA 1(3)	"The statement shall contain particulars of— (a) the names of the employer and employee, (b) the date when the employment began, and (c) the date on which the employee’s period of continuous employment began (taking into account any employment with a previous employer which counts towards that period)."	"The statement shall contain — (a) the names of the employer and employee, (b) the date when the employment began, and (c) the date on which the employee’s period of continuous employment began."	No	No	Yes
ERA 1(3)	The statement shall contain particulars of—	The statement shall contain —	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(3)	the date on which the employee’s period of continuous employment began (taking into account any employment with a previous employer which counts towards that period).	the date on which the employee’s period of continuous employment began.	No	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"The statement shall also contain particulars, as at a specified date not more than seven days before the statement (or the instalment containing them) is given, of— (a) the scale or rate of remuneration or the method of calculating remuneration, (b) the intervals at which remuneration is paid (that is, weekly, monthly or other specified intervals), (c) any terms and conditions relating to hours of work (including any terms and conditions relating to normal working hours), (d) any terms and conditions relating to any of the following— (i) entitlement to holidays, including public holidays, and holiday pay (the particulars given being sufficient to enable the employee’s entitlement, including any entitlement to accrued holiday pay on the termination of employment, to be precisely calculated), (ii) incapacity for work due to sickness or injury, including any provision for sick pay, and (iii) pensions and pension schemes, (e) the length of notice which the employee is obliged to give and entitled to receive to terminate his contract of employment, (f) the title of the job which the employee is employed to do or a brief description of the work for which he is employed, (g) where the employment is not intended to be permanent, the period for which it is expected to continue or, if it is for a fixed term, the date when it is to end, (h) either the place of work or, where the employee is required or permitted to work at various places, an indication of that and of the address of the employer, (j) any collective agreements which directly affect the terms and conditions of the employment including, where the employer is not a party, the persons by whom they were made, and (k) where the employee is required to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month— (i) the period for which he is to work outside the United Kingdom, (ii) the currency in which remuneration is to be paid while he is working outside the United Kingdom, (iii) any additional remuneration payable to him, and any benefits to be provided to or in respect of him, by reason of his being required to work outside the United Kingdom, and (iv) any terms and conditions relating to his return to the United Kingdom."	"The statement shall also contain— (a) the rate of remuneration, (b) the intervals at which remuneration is paid, (c) any terms and conditions relating to hours of work, (d) any terms and conditions relating to any of the following— (i) entitlement to holidays, including public holidays, and holiday pay, (ii) incapacity for work due to sickness or injury, including any sick pay, and (iii) pensions and pension schemes, (e) the length of notice to terminate employment, (f) the title of the job or a brief description of the work, (g) where the employment is not permanent, the period for which it is expected to continue or, if a fixed term, the date when it is to end, (h) the place of work, (j) any collective agreements which  affect the terms and conditions of employment, and (k) where the employee is required to work outside the United Kingdom for more than one month— (i) the period for which he is to work outside the United Kingdom, (ii) the currency which is to be paid while he is working outside the United Kingdom, (iii) any additional remuneration payable to him, and any benefits to be provided, by reason of his being required to work outside the United Kingdom, and (iv) any terms and conditions relating to his return to the United Kingdom."	No	No	Yes
ERA 1(4)	"The statement shall also contain particulars, as at a specified date not more than seven days before the statement (or the instalment containing them) is given, of—"	The statement shall also contain—	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"the scale or rate of remuneration or the method of calculating remuneration,"	"the rate of remuneration,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"the intervals at which remuneration is paid (that is, weekly, monthly or other specified intervals),"	"the intervals at which remuneration is paid,"	No	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"any terms and conditions relating to hours of work (including any terms and conditions relating to normal working hours),"	"any terms and conditions relating to hours of work,"	No	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	any terms and conditions relating to any of the following—	any terms and conditions relating to any of the following—	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"entitlement to holidays, including public holidays, and holiday pay (the particulars given being sufficient to enable the employee’s entitlement, including any entitlement to accrued holiday pay on the termination of employment, to be precisely calculated),"	"entitlement to holidays, including public holidays, and holiday pay,"	No	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"incapacity for work due to sickness or injury, including any provision for sick pay, and"	"incapacity for work due to sickness or injury, including any sick pay, and"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"pensions and pension schemes,"	"pensions and pension schemes,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"the length of notice which the employee is obliged to give and entitled to receive to terminate his contract of employment,"	"the length of notice to terminate employment,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"the title of the job which the employee is employed to do or a brief description of the work for which he is employed,"	"the title of the job or a brief description of the work,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"where the employment is not intended to be permanent, the period for which it is expected to continue or, if it is for a fixed term, the date when it is to end,"	"where the employment is not permanent, the period for which it is expected to continue or, if a fixed term, the date when it is to end,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"either the place of work or, where the employee is required or permitted to work at various places, an indication of that and of the address of the employer,"	"the place of work,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"any collective agreements which directly affect the terms and conditions of the employment including, where the employer is not a party, the persons by whom they were made, and"	"any collective agreements which  affect the terms and conditions of employment, and"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	where the employee is required to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month—	where the employee is required to work outside the United Kingdom for more than one month—	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"the period for which he is to work outside the United Kingdom,"	"the period for which he is to work outside the United Kingdom,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"the currency in which remuneration is to be paid while he is working outside the United Kingdom,"	"the currency which is to be paid while he is working outside the United Kingdom,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	"any additional remuneration payable to him, and any benefits to be provided to or in respect of him, by reason of his being required to work outside the United Kingdom, and"	"any additional remuneration payable to him, and any benefits to be provided, by reason of his being required to work outside the United Kingdom, and"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(4)	any terms and conditions relating to his return to the United Kingdom.	any terms and conditions relating to his return to the United Kingdom.	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(5)	"Subsection (4)(d)(iii) does not apply to an employee of a body or authority if— (a) the employee’s pension rights depend on the terms of a pension scheme established under any provision contained in or having effect under any Act, and (b) any such provision requires the body or authority to give to a new employee information concerning the employee’s pension rights or the determination of questions affecting those rights."	"Subsection (4)(d)(iii) does not apply to an employee if— (a) the employee’s pension rights depend on a pension scheme established under any Act, and (b) any such provision requires the body to give information concerning the employee’s pension rights."	No	No	Yes
ERA 1(5)	Subsection (4)(d)(iii) does not apply to an employee of a body or authority if—	Subsection (4)(d)(iii) does not apply to an employee if—	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(5)	"the employee’s pension rights depend on the terms of a pension scheme established under any provision contained in or having effect under any Act, and"	any such provision requires the body to give information concerning the employee’s pension rights.	Yes	yes	No
ERA 1(5)	any such provision requires the body or authority to give to a new employee information concerning the employee’s pension rights or the determination of questions affecting those rights.	any such provision requires the body to give information concerning the employee’s pension rights.	Yes	yes	No
ERA 2(1)	"If, in the case of a statement under section 1, there are no particulars to be entered under any of the heads of paragraph (d) or (k) of subsection (4) of that section, or under any of the other paragraphs of subsection (3) or (4) of that section, that fact shall be stated."	"If, in the case of a statement under section 1, there are no particulars under paragraph (d) or (k) of subsection (4), or under any of the other paragraphs of subsection (3) or (4), that fact shall be stated."	Yes	No	No
ERA 2(2)	A statement under section 1 may refer the employee for particulars of any of the matters specified in subsection (4)(d)(ii) and (iii) of that section to the provisions of some other document which is reasonably accessible to the employee.	A statement under section 1 may refer the employee for particulars in subsection (4)(d)(ii) and (iii) to some other document which is accessible to the employee.	Yes	No	No
ERA 2(3)	A statement under section 1 may refer the employee for particulars of either of the matters specified in subsection (4)(e) of that section to the law or to the provisions of any collective agreement directly affecting the terms and conditions of the employment which is reasonably accessible to the employee.	A statement under section 1 may refer the employee for particulars in subsection (4)(e) to any collective agreement affecting the terms and conditions of the employment which is  accessible to the employee.	Yes	No	No
ERA 2(5)	"Where before the end of the period of two months after the beginning of an employee’s employment the employee is to begin to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month, the statement under section 1 shall be given to him not later than the time when he leaves the United Kingdom in order to begin so to work."	"Where before two months after the beginning of employment the employee is to begin to work outside the United Kingdom for more than one month, the statement under section 1 shall be given to him not later than when he leaves the United Kingdom."	Yes	No	No
ERA 2(6)	A statement shall be given to a person under section 1 even if his employment ends before the end of the period within which the statement is required to be given.	A statement shall be given to a person under section 1 even if his employment ends before  the period within which the statement is required to be given.	Yes	No	No
ERA 3(1)	"A statement under section 1 shall include a note— (a) specifying any disciplinary rules applicable to the employee or referring the employee to the provisions of a document specifying such rules which is reasonably accessible to the employee, (aa) specifying any procedure applicable to the taking of disciplinary decisions relating to the employee, or to a decision to dismiss the employee, or referring the employee to the provisions of a document specifying such a procedure which is reasonably accessible to the employee, (b) specifying (by description or otherwise)— (i) a person to whom the employee can apply if dissatisfied with any disciplinary decision relating to him or any decision to dismiss him, and (ii) a person to whom the employee can apply for the purpose of seeking redress of any grievance relating to his employment,and the manner in which any such application should be made, and (c) where there are further steps consequent on any such application, explaining those steps or referring to the provisions of a document explaining them which is reasonably accessible to the employee."	"A statement under section 1 shall include— (a) any disciplinary rules applicable to the employee or referring the employee a document specifying such rules, (aa) any procedure applicable to disciplinary decisions or referring the employee to a document specifying such a procedure, (b) by description or otherwise— (i) a person to whom the employee can apply if dissatisfied with any disciplinary decision, and (ii) a person to whom the employee can apply for redress of any grievance relating to his employment, and (c) where there are further steps on any such application, explaining those steps or referring to a document explaining them."	No	No	Yes
ERA 3(1)	A statement under section 1 shall include a note—	A statement under section 1 shall include—	Yes	yes	No
ERA 3(1)	"specifying any disciplinary rules applicable to the employee or referring the employee to the provisions of a document specifying such rules which is reasonably accessible to the employee,"	"any disciplinary rules applicable to the employee or referring the employee a document specifying such rules,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 3(1)	"specifying any procedure applicable to the taking of disciplinary decisions relating to the employee, or to a decision to dismiss the employee, or referring the employee to the provisions of a document specifying such a procedure which is reasonably accessible to the employee,"	"any procedure applicable to disciplinary decisions or referring the employee to a document specifying such a procedure,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 3(1)	specifying (by description or otherwise)—	by description or otherwise—	No	yes	No
ERA 3(1)	"a person to whom the employee can apply if dissatisfied with any disciplinary decision relating to him or any decision to dismiss him, and"	"a person to whom the employee can apply if dissatisfied with any disciplinary decision, and"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 3(1)	"a person to whom the employee can apply for the purpose of seeking redress of any grievance relating to his employment,and the manner in which any such application should be made, and"	"a person to whom the employee can apply for redress of any grievance relating to his employment, and"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 3(1)	"where there are further steps consequent on any such application, explaining those steps or referring to the provisions of a document explaining them which is reasonably accessible to the employee."	"where there are further steps on any such application, explaining those steps or referring to a document explaining them."	Yes	yes	No
ERA 3(2)	"Subsection (1) does not apply to rules, disciplinary decisions, decisions to dismiss grievances or procedures relating to health or safety at work."	Subsection (1) does not apply to rules relating to health or safety at work.	Yes	No	No
ERA 4(1)	"If, after the material date, there is a change in any of the matters particulars of which are required by sections 1 to 3 to be included or referred to in a statement under section 1, the employer shall give to the employee a written statement containing particulars of the change."	"If there is a change in any of the matters to be included in a statement under section 1, the employer shall give a written statement of the change."	Yes	No	No
ERA 4(2)	"For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) in relation to a matter particulars of which are included or referred to in a statement given under section 1 otherwise than in instalments, the material date is the date to which the statement relates, (b) in relation to a matter particulars of which— (i) are included or referred to in an instalment of a statement given under section 1, or (ii) are required by section 2(4) to be included in a single document but are not included in an instalment of a statement given under section 1 which does include other particulars to which that provision applies,the material date is the date to which the instalment relates, and (c) in relation to any other matter, the material date is the date by which a statement under section 1 is required to be given."	"For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) in relation to a matter included in a statement given otherwise than in instalments, the material date is the date to which the statement relates, (b) in relation to a matter— (i) included in an instalment of a statement, or (ii) included in a single document but not included in an instalment of a statement, the material date is the date to which the instalment relates, and (c) in relation to any other matter, the material date is the date by which a statement is required to be given."	No	No	Yes
ERA 4(2)	"in relation to a matter particulars of which are included or referred to in a statement given under section 1 otherwise than in instalments, the material date is the date to which the statement relates,"	"in relation to a matter included in a statement given otherwise than in instalments, the material date is the date to which the statement relates,"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 4(2)	in relation to a matter particulars of which—	in relation to a matter—	Yes	yes	No
ERA 4(2)	"are included or referred to in an instalment of a statement given under section 1, or"	"included in an instalment of a statement, or"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 4(2)	"are required by section 2(4) to be included in a single document but are not included in an instalment of a statement given under section 1 which does include other particulars to which that provision applies,the material date is the date to which the instalment relates, and"	"included in a single document but not included in an instalment of a statement, the material date is the date to which the instalment relates, and"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 4(2)	"in relation to any other matter, the material date is the date by which a statement under section 1 is required to be given."	"in relation to any other matter, the material date is the date by which a statement is required to be given."	Yes	yes	No
ERA 4(3)	"A statement under subsection (1) shall be given at the earliest opportunity and, in any event, not later than— (a) one month after the change in question, or (b) where that change results from the employee being required to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month, the time when he leaves the United Kingdom in order to begin so to work, if that is earlier."	"A statement under subsection (1) shall be given at the earliest opportunity and not later than— (a) one month after the change, or (b) where that change results from the employee being required to work outside the United Kingdom for more than one month, the time when he leaves the United Kingdom, if that is earlier."	No	No	Yes
ERA 4(3)	"shall be given at the earliest opportunity and, in any event, not later than—"	shall be given at the earliest opportunity and not later than—	Yes	yes	No
ERA 4(3)	"one month after the change in question, or"	"one month after the change, or"	Yes	yes	No
ERA 4(3)	"where that change results from the employee being required to work outside the United Kingdom for a period of more than one month, the time when he leaves the United Kingdom in order to begin so to work, if that is earlier."	"where that change results from the employee being required to work outside the United Kingdom for more than one month, the time when he leaves the United Kingdom, if that is earlier."	Yes	yes	No
DPA 2(2)	"When carrying out functions under the GDPR, the applied GDPR and this Act, the Commissioner must have regard to the importance of securing an appropriate level of protection for personal data, taking account of the interests of data subjects, controllers and others and matters of general public interest."	"When carrying out functions under the GDPR the Commissioner must have regard to securing protection for personal data, taking account the interests of data subjects, controllers and general public interest."	Yes	No	No
DPA 3(2)	“Personal data” means any information relating to an identified or identifiable living individual (subject to subsection (14)(c)).	“Personal data” means any information relating to an identifiable living individual.	No	No	No
DPA 3(3)	"“Identifiable living individual” means a living individual who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to— (a) an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data or an online identifier, or (b) one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of the individual."	"“Identifiable living individual” means a living individual who can be identified by reference to— (a) a name, an identification number, location data or an online identifier, or (b) one or more factors specific to the physical identity of the individual."	No	No	Yes
DPA 3(3)	"“Identifiable living individual” means a living individual who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to—"	“Identifiable living individual” means a living individual who can be identified by reference to—	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(3)	"an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data or an online identifier, or"	"a name, an identification number, location data or an online identifier, or"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(3)	"one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of the individual."	one or more factors specific to the physical identity of the individual.	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(4)	"Processing”, in relation to information, means an operation or set of operations which is performed on information, or on sets of information, such as— (a) collection, recording, organisation, structuring or storage, (b) adaptation or alteration, (c) retrieval, consultation or use, (d) disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, (e) alignment or combination, or (f) restriction, erasure or destruction, (subject to subsection (14)(c) and sections 5(7), 29(2) and 82(3), which make provision about references to processing in the different Parts of this Act)."	"Processing”, in relation to information, means an operation which is performed on information, such as— (a) collection, or storage, (b) alteration, (c) retrieval or use, (d) disclosure, (e) alignment, or (f) restriction or destruction, (subject to subsection (14)(c) and sections 5(7), 29(2) and 82(3) of this Act)."	No	No	Yes
DPA 3(4)	"Processing”, in relation to information, means an operation or set of operations which is performed on information, or on sets of information, such as—"	"Processing”, in relation to information, means an operation which is performed on information, such as—"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(4)	"collection, recording, organisation, structuring or storage,"	"collection, or storage,"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(4)	"adaptation or alteration,"	"alteration,"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(4)	"retrieval, consultation or use,"	"retrieval or use,"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(4)	"disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available,"	"disclosure,"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(4)	"alignment or combination, or"	"alignment, or"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(4)	"restriction, erasure or destruction,"	"restriction or destruction,"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 3(4)	"(subject to subsection (14)(c) and sections 5(7), 29(2) and 82(3), which make provision about references to processing in the different Parts of this Act)."	"(subject to subsection (14)(c) and sections 5(7), 29(2) and 82(3) of this Act)."	No	yes	No
DPA 3(5)	“Data subject” means the identified or identifiable living individual to whom personal data relates.	“Data subject” means the identifiable living individual to whom personal data relates.	Yes	No	No
DPA 3(6)	"“Controller” and “processor”, in relation to the processing of personal data to which Chapter 2 or 3 of Part 2, Part 3 or Part 4 applies, have the same meaning as in that Chapter or Part (see sections 5, 6, 32 and 83 and see also subsection (14)(d))."	"“Controller” and “processor”, in relation to the processing of personal data to which Chapter 2 or 3 of Part 2, Part 3 or Part 4 applies, have the same meaning as in that Chapter or Part."	Yes	No	No
DPA 3(7)	"“Filing system” means any structured set of personal data which is accessible according to specific criteria, whether held by automated means or manually and whether centralised, decentralised or dispersed on a functional or geographical basis."	"“Filing system” means any structured set of personal data which is accessible according to specific criteria, whether held by automated means or manually."	Yes	No	No
DPA 6(2)	"For the purposes of the GDPR, where personal data is processed only— (a) for purposes for which it is required by an enactment to be processed, and (b) by means by which it is required by an enactment to be processed, the person on whom the obligation to process the data is imposed by the enactment (or, if different, one of the enactments) is the controller.
"	"Where personal data is processed only— (a) for purposes required by an enactment, and (b) by means required by an enactment, the person on whom the obligation to process the data is imposed by the enactment is the controller.
"	No	No	Yes
DPA 6(2)	"For the purposes of the GDPR, where personal data is processed only—"	Where personal data is processed only—	Yes	yes	No
DPA 6(2)	"for purposes for which it is required by an enactment to be processed, and"	"for purposes required by an enactment, and"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 6(2)	"by means by which it is required by an enactment to be processed,"	"by means required by an enactment,"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 6(2)	"the person on whom the obligation to process the data is imposed by the enactment (or, if different, one of the enactments) is the controller."	the person on whom the obligation to process the data is imposed by the enactment is the controller.	No	yes	No
DPA 7(1)	"For the purposes of the GDPR, the following (and only the following) are “public authorities” and “public bodies” under the law of the United Kingdom— (a) a public authority as defined by the Freedom of Information Act 2000, (b) a Scottish public authority as defined by the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (asp 13), and (c) an authority or body specified or described by the Secretary of State in regulations, subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4).
"	"The following are “public authorities” and “public bodies”— (a) a public authority as defined by the Freedom of Information Act 2000, (b) a Scottish public authority as defined by the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002, and (c) an authority or body specified or described by the Secretary of State, subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4).
"	No	No	Yes
DPA 7(1)	"For the purposes of the GDPR, the following (and only the following) are “public authorities” and “public bodies” under the law of the United Kingdom—"	The following are “public authorities” and “public bodies”—	Yes	yes	No
DPA 7(1)	an authority or body specified or described by the Secretary of State in regulations	an authority or body specified or described by the Secretary of State	Yes	yes	No
DPA 7(2)	An authority or body that falls within subsection (1) is only a “public authority” or “public body” for the purposes of the GDPR when performing a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in it.	A body that falls within subsection (1) is only a “public authority” or “public body” when performing a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority.	Yes	No	No
DPA 7(4)	The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that a person specified or described in the regulations that is a public authority described in subsection (1)(a) or (b) is not a “public authority” or “public body” for the purposes of the GDPR.	The Secretary of State provide that a person that is a public authority described in subsection (1)(a) or (b) is not a “public authority” or “public body”.	Yes	No	No
DPA 8	"In Article 6(1) of the GDPR (lawfulness of processing), the reference in point (e) to processing of personal data that is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the controller’s official authority includes processing of personal data that is necessary for— (a) the administration of justice, (b) the exercise of a function of either House of Parliament, (c) the exercise of a function conferred on a person by an enactment or rule of law, (d) the exercise of a function of the Crown, a Minister of the Crown or a government department, or (e) an activity that supports or promotes democratic engagement."	"In Article 6(1) of the GDPR, the reference in point (e) to processing that is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the controller’s official authority includes processing that is necessary for— (a) the administration of justice, (b) the exercise of a function of either House of Parliament, (c) the exercise of a function conferred on a person by law, (d) the exercise of a function of a government department, or (e) an activity that supports democratic engagement."	No	No	Yes
DPA 8	"In Article 6(1) of the GDPR (lawfulness of processing), the reference in point (e) to processing of personal data that is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the controller’s official authority includes processing of personal data that is necessary for—"	"In Article 6(1) of the GDPR, the reference in point (e) to processing that is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the controller’s official authority includes processing that is necessary for—"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 8	"the exercise of a function conferred on a person by an enactment or rule of law,"	"the exercise of a function conferred on a person by law,"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 8	"the exercise of a function of the Crown, a Minister of the Crown or a government department, or"	"the exercise of a function of a government department, or"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 8	an activity that supports or promotes democratic engagement.	an activity that supports democratic engagement.	Yes	yes	No
DPA 9	"In Article 8(1) of the GDPR (conditions applicable to child’s consent in relation to information society services)— (a) references to “16 years” are to be read as references to “13 years”, and (b) the reference to “information society services” does not include preventive or counselling services."	"In Article 8(1) of the GDPR— (a) references to “16 years” are to be read as “13 years”, and (b) the reference to “information society services” does not include preventive or counselling services."	No	No	Yes
DPA 9	In Article 8(1) of the GDPR (conditions applicable to child’s consent in relation to information society services)—	In Article 8(1) of the GDPR—	No	yes	No
DPA 9	"references to “16 years” are to be read as references to “13 years”, and"	"references to “16 years” are to be read as “13 years”, and"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 10(2)	"The processing meets the requirement in point (b), (h), (i) or (j) of Article 9(2) of the GDPR for authorisation by, or a basis in, the law of the United Kingdom or a part of the United Kingdom only if it meets a condition in Part 1 of Schedule 1."	"The processing meets the requirement in point (b), (h), (i) or (j) of Article 9(2) of the GDPR for authorisation by the law of the United Kingdom only if it meets a condition in Part 1 of Schedule 1."	Yes	No	No
DPA 10(4)	Subsection (5) makes provision about the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences or related security measures that is not carried out under the control of official authority.	Subsection (5) makes provision about the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions that is not carried out under the control of official authority.	Yes	No	No
DPA 10(6)	"The Secretary of State may by regulations— (a) amend Schedule 1— (i) by adding or varying conditions or safeguards, and (ii) by omitting conditions or safeguards added by regulations under this section, and (b) consequentially amend this section."	"The Secretary of State may— (a) amend Schedule 1— (i) by varying conditions or safeguards, and (ii) by omitting conditions or safeguards, and (b) amend this section."	No	No	Yes
DPA 10(6)	The Secretary of State may by regulations—	The Secretary of State may—	Yes	yes	No
DPA 10(6)	"by adding or varying conditions or safeguards, and"	"by varying conditions or safeguards, and"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 10(6)	"by omitting conditions or safeguards added by regulations under this section, and"	"by omitting conditions or safeguards, and"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 10(6)	consequentially amend this section.	amend this section.	Yes	yes	No
DPA 11(1)	"For the purposes of Article 9(2)(h) of the GDPR (processing for health or social care purposes etc), the circumstances in which the processing of personal data is carried out subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in Article 9(3) of the GDPR (obligation of secrecy) include circumstances in which it is carried out— (a) by or under the responsibility of a health professional or a social work professional, or (b) by another person who in the circumstances owes a duty of confidentiality under an enactment or rule of law."	"For the purposes of Article 9(2)(h) of the GDPR, the processing of personal data subject to the conditions referred to in Article 9(3) include circumstances in which it is carried out— (a) by a health or a social work professional, or (b) by another person who owes a duty of confidentiality under law."	No	No	Yes
DPA 11(1)	"For the purposes of Article 9(2)(h) of the GDPR (processing for health or social care purposes etc), the circumstances in which the processing of personal data is carried out subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in Article 9(3) of the GDPR (obligation of secrecy) include circumstances in which it is carried out"	"For the purposes of Article 9(2)(h) of the GDPR, the processing of personal data subject to the conditions referred to in Article 9(3) include circumstances in which it is carried out—"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 11(1)	"by or under the responsibility of a health professional or a social work professional, or"	"by a health or a social work professional, or"	Yes	yes	No
DPA 11(1)	by another person who in the circumstances owes a duty of confidentiality under an enactment or rule of law.	by another person who owes a duty of confidentiality under law.	Yes	yes	No
HRA 2(1)	"A court or tribunal determining a question which has arisen in connection with a Convention right must take into account any— (a) judgment, decision, declaration or advisory opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, (b) opinion of the Commission given in a report adopted under Article 31 of the Convention, (c) decision of the Commission in connection with Article 26 or 27(2) of the Convention, or (d) decision of the Committee of Ministers taken under Article 46 of the Convention, whenever made or given, so far as, in the opinion of the court or tribunal, it is relevant to the proceedings in which that question has arisen.
"	"A court determining a question in connection with a Convention right must take into account any— (a) judgment or advisory opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, (b) opinion of the Commission, (c) decision of the Commission, or (d) decision of the Committee of Ministers, whenever given, so far as it is relevant to the proceedings.
"	No	No	Yes
HRA 2(1)	A court or tribunal determining a question which has arisen in connection with a Convention right must take into account any—	A court determining a question in connection with a Convention right must take into account any—	Yes	yes	No
HRA 2(1)	"judgment, decision, declaration or advisory opinion of the European Court of Human Rights,"	"judgment or advisory opinion of the European Court of Human Rights,"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 2(1)	"opinion of the Commission given in a report adopted under Article 31 of the Convention,"	"opinion of the Commission,"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 2(1)	"decision of the Commission in connection with Article 26 or 27(2) of the Convention, or"	"decision of the Commission, or"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 2(1)	"decision of the Committee of Ministers taken under Article 46 of the Convention,"	"decision of the Committee of Ministers,"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 2(1)	"whenever made or given, so far as, in the opinion of the court or tribunal, it is relevant to the proceedings in which that question has arisen."	"whenever given, so far as it is relevant to the proceedings."	Yes	yes	No
HRA 2(2)	"Evidence of any judgment, decision, declaration or opinion of which account may have to be taken under this section is to be given in proceedings before any court or tribunal in such manner as may be provided by rules."	Evidence of any judgment or opinion is to be given in proceedings before any court in such manner as may be provided.	Yes	No	No
HRA 2(3)	"In this section “rules” means rules of court or, in the case of proceedings before a tribunal, rules made for the purposes of this section— (a) by the Lord Chancellor or the Secretary of State, in relation to any proceedings outside Scotland; (b) by the Secretary of State, in relation to proceedings in Scotland; or (c) by a Northern Ireland department, in relation to proceedings before a tribunal in Northern Ireland— (i) which deals with transferred matters; and (ii) for which no rules made under paragraph (a) are in force."	"In this section “rules” means rules of court or rules made for the purposes of this section— (a) by the Lord Chancellor or the Secretary of State, in relation to any proceedings outside Scotland; (b) by the Secretary of State, in relation to proceedings in Scotland; or (c) by a Northern Ireland department, in relation to proceedings in Northern Ireland— (i) which deals with transferred matters; and (ii) for which no rules made under paragraph (a) are in force."	No	No	Yes
HRA 2(3)	"In this section “rules” means rules of court or, in the case of proceedings before a tribunal, rules made for the purposes of this section—"	In this section “rules” means rules of court or rules made for the purposes of this section—	Yes	yes	No
HRA 2(3)	"by a Northern Ireland department, in relation to proceedings before a tribunal in Northern Ireland—"	"by a Northern Ireland department, in relation to proceedings in Northern Ireland—"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 3(1)	"So far as it is possible to do so, primary legislation and subordinate legislation must be read and given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights."	"So far as possible, legislation must be read in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights."	Yes	No	No
HRA 3(2)	"This section— (a) applies to primary legislation and subordinate legislation whenever enacted; (b) does not affect the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible primary legislation; and (c) does not affect the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible subordinate legislation if (disregarding any possibility of revocation) primary legislation prevents removal of the incompatibility."	This section— (a) applies legislation whenever enacted; (b) does not affect the validity of any incompatible primary legislation; and (c) does not affect the validity of any incompatible subordinate legislation if primary legislation prevents removal of the incompatibility.	No	No	Yes
HRA 3(2)	applies to primary legislation and subordinate legislation whenever enacted;	applies legislation whenever enacted;	Yes	yes	No
HRA 3(2)	"does not affect the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible primary legislation; and"	does not affect the validity of any incompatible primary legislation; and	Yes	yes	No
HRA 3(2)	"does not affect the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible subordinate legislation if (disregarding any possibility of revocation) primary legislation prevents removal of the incompatibility."	does not affect the validity of any incompatible subordinate legislation if primary legislation prevents removal of the incompatibility.	Yes	yes	No
HRA 4(3)	"Subsection (4) applies in any proceedings in which a court determines whether a provision of subordinate legislation, made in the exercise of a power conferred by primary legislation, is compatible with a Convention right."	Subsection (4) applies in any proceedings in which a court determines whether a provision of subordinate legislation is compatible with a Convention right.	Yes	No	No
HRA 4(4)	"If the court is satisfied— (a) that the provision is incompatible with a Convention right, and (b) that (disregarding any possibility of revocation) the primary legislation concerned prevents removal of the incompatibility, it may make a declaration of that incompatibility.
"	"If the court is satisfied— (a) that the provision is incompatible with a Convention right, and (b) that primary legislation prevents removal of the incompatibility, it may make a declaration.
"	No	No	Yes
HRA 4(4)	"that (disregarding any possibility of revocation) the primary legislation concerned prevents removal of the incompatibility,"	"that primary legislation prevents removal of the incompatibility,"	No	yes	No
HRA 4(4)	it may make a declaration of that incompatibility.	it may make a declaration.	Yes	yes	No
HRA 4(6)	"A declaration under this section (“a declaration of incompatibility”)— (a) does not affect the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of the provision in respect of which it is given; and (b) is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made."	A declaration under this section— (a) does not affect the validity of the provision in respect of which it is given; and (b) is not binding on the parties to the proceedings.	No	No	Yes
HRA 4(6)	A declaration under this section (“a declaration of incompatibility”)—	A declaration under this section—	No	yes	No
HRA 4(6)	"does not affect the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of the provision in respect of which it is given; and"	does not affect the validity of the provision in respect of which it is given; and	Yes	yes	No
HRA 4(6)	is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made.	is not binding on the parties to the proceedings.	Yes	yes	No
HRA 5(1)	"Where a court is considering whether to make a declaration of incompatibility, the Crown is entitled to notice in accordance with rules of court."	"Where a court is considering whether to make a declaration of incompatibility, the Crown is entitled to notice."	Yes	No	No
HRA 5(4)	"A person who has been made a party to criminal proceedings (other than in Scotland) as the result of a notice under subsection (2) may, with leave, appeal to the Supreme Court against any declaration of incompatibility made in the proceedings."	A person who has been made a party to criminal proceedings as the result of subsection (2) may appeal to the Supreme Court against any declaration of incompatibility.	No	No	No
HRA 6(2)	"Subsection (1) does not apply to an act if— (a) as the result of one or more provisions of primary legislation, the authority could not have acted differently; or (b) in the case of one or more provisions of, or made under, primary legislation which cannot be read or given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights, the authority was acting so as to give effect to or enforce those provisions."	"Subsection (1) does not apply if— (a) as the result of primary legislation, the authority could not have acted differently; or (b) in the case of provisions which cannot be read in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights, the authority was acting so as to give effect to those provisions."	No	No	Yes
HRA 6(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to an act if—	Subsection (1) does not apply if—	Yes	yes	No
HRA 6(2)	"as the result of one or more provisions of primary legislation, the authority could not have acted differently; or"	"as the result of primary legislation, the authority could not have acted differently; or"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 6(2)	"in the case of one or more provisions of, or made under, primary legislation which cannot be read or given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights, the authority was acting so as to give effect to or enforce those provisions."	"in the case of provisions which cannot be read in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights, the authority was acting so as to give effect to those provisions."	Yes	yes	No
HRA 6(3)	"In this section “public authority” includes— (a) a court or tribunal, and (b) any person certain of whose functions are functions of a public nature, but does not include either House of Parliament or a person exercising functions in connection with proceedings in Parliament.
"	"“public authority” includes— (a) a court, and (b) any person whose functions are of a public nature, but does not include either House of Parliament.
"	No	No	Yes
HRA 6(3)	In this section “public authority” includes—	“public authority” includes—	Yes	yes	No
HRA 6(3)	"a court or tribunal, and"	"a court, and"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 6(3)	"any person certain of whose functions are functions of a public nature,"	"any person whose functions are of a public nature,"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 6(3)	but does not include either House of Parliament or a person exercising functions in connection with proceedings in Parliament.	but does not include either House of Parliament.	Yes	yes	No
HRA 6(5)	"In relation to a particular act, a person is not a public authority by virtue only of subsection (3)(b) if the nature of the act is private."	A person is not a public authority by virtue only of subsection (3)(b) if the act is private.	Yes	No	No
HRA 6(6)	"“An act” includes a failure to act but does not include a failure to— (a) introduce in, or lay before, Parliament a proposal for legislation; or (b) make any primary legislation or remedial order."	“An act” includes a failure to act but does not include a failure to— (a) introduce in Parliament a proposal for legislation; or (b) make any primary legislation or remedial order.	No	No	Yes
HRA 6(6)	"introduce in, or lay before, Parliament a proposal for legislation; or"	introduce in Parliament a proposal for legislation; or	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(1)	"A person who claims that a public authority has acted (or proposes to act) in a way which is made unlawful by section 6(1) may— (a) bring proceedings against the authority under this Act in the appropriate court or tribunal, or (b) rely on the Convention right or rights concerned in any legal proceedings, but only if he is (or would be) a victim of the unlawful act.
"	"A person who claims that a public authority has acted in a way which is unlawful by section 6(1) may— (a) bring proceedings against the authority, or (b) rely on the Convention right in any legal proceedings, but only if he is a victim of the unlawful act.
"	No	No	Yes
HRA 7(1)	A person who claims that a public authority has acted (or proposes to act) in a way which is made unlawful by section 6(1) may—	A person who claims that a public authority has acted in a way which is unlawful by section 6(1) may—	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(1)	"bring proceedings against the authority under this Act in the appropriate court or tribunal, or"	"bring proceedings against the authority, or"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(1)	"rely on the Convention right or rights concerned in any legal proceedings,"	"rely on the Convention right in any legal proceedings,"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(1)	but only if he is (or would be) a victim of the unlawful act.	but only if he is a victim of the unlawful act.	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(5)	"Proceedings under subsection (1)(a) must be brought before the end of— (a) the period of one year beginning with the date on which the act complained of took place; or (b) such longer period as the court or tribunal considers equitable having regard to all the circumstances, but that is subject to any rule imposing a stricter time limit in relation to the procedure in question.
"	"Proceedings must be brought before the end of— (a) one year beginning with the date the act took place; or (b) such longer period as the court considers equitable, but subject to any rule imposing a stricter time limit.
"	No	No	Yes
HRA 7(5)	Proceedings under subsection (1)(a) must be brought before the end of—	Proceedings must be brought before the end of—	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(5)	the period of one year beginning with the date on which the act complained of took place; or	one year beginning with the date the act took place; or	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(5)	"such longer period as the court or tribunal considers equitable having regard to all the circumstances,"	"such longer period as the court considers equitable,"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(5)	but that is subject to any rule imposing a stricter time limit in relation to the procedure in question.	but subject to any rule imposing a stricter time limit.	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(11)	"The Minister who has power to make rules in relation to a particular tribunal may, to the extent he considers it necessary to ensure that the tribunal can provide an appropriate remedy in relation to an act (or proposed act) of a public authority which is (or would be) unlawful as a result of section 6(1), by order add to— (a) the relief or remedies which the tribunal may grant; or (b) the grounds on which it may grant any of them."	"The Minister who has power to make rules in relation to a particular tribunal may, to the extent he considers it necessary to ensure an appropriate remedy, add to— (a) the remedies which the tribunal may grant; or (b) the grounds on which it may grant them."	No	No	Yes
HRA 7(11)	"The Minister who has power to make rules in relation to a particular tribunal may, to the extent he considers it necessary to ensure that the tribunal can provide an appropriate remedy in relation to an act (or proposed act) of a public authority which is (or would be) unlawful as a result of section 6(1), by order add to—"	"The Minister who has power to make rules in relation to a particular tribunal may, to the extent he considers it necessary to ensure an appropriate remedy, add to—"	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(11)	the relief or remedies which the tribunal may grant; or	the remedies which the tribunal may grant; or	Yes	yes	No
HRA 7(11)	the grounds on which it may grant any of them.	the grounds on which it may grant them.	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 204A(2)	"“Relevant requirement” means a requirement imposed (a) by or under this Act, (b) by a qualifying EU provision specified, or of a description specified, for the purposes of this subsection by the Treasury by order, or (c) by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013"	"“Relevant requirement” means a requirement imposed (a) by this Act, (b) by a qualifying EU provision specified by the Treasury, or (c) by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013"	No	No	Yes
FSMA 204A(2)	by or under this Act	by this Act	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 204A(2)	"by a qualifying EU provision specified, or of a description specified, for the purposes of this subsection by the Treasury by order, or"	"by a qualifying EU provision specified by the Treasury, or"	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 204A(3)	The PRA is “the appropriate regulator” in the case of a contravention of— (a) a requirement that is imposed under any provision of this Act by the PRA; (b) a requirement under section 56(6) where the authorised person concerned is a PRA-authorised person and the prohibition order concerned is made by the PRA; (c) a requirement under section 59(1) or (2) where the authorised person concerned is a PRA-authorised person and the approval concerned falls to be given by the PRA.	The PRA is “the appropriate regulator” in the case of— (a) a requirement that is imposed under this Act by the PRA; (b) a requirement under section 56(6) where the authorised person is a PRA-authorised person and the prohibition order is made by the PRA; (c) a requirement under section 59(1) or (2) where the authorised person is a PRA-authorised person and the approval falls to be given by the PRA.	No	No	Yes
FSMA 204A(3)	The PRA is “the appropriate regulator” in the case of a contravention of—	The PRA is “the appropriate regulator” in the case of—	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 204A(3)	a requirement that is imposed under any provision of this Act by the PRA	a requirement that is imposed under this Act by the PRA	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 204A(3)	a requirement under section 56(6) where the authorised person concerned is a PRA-authorised person and the prohibition order concerned is made by the PRA;	a requirement under section 56(6) where the authorised person is a PRA-authorised person and the prohibition order is made by the PRA;	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 204A(3)	a requirement under section 59(1) or (2) where the authorised person concerned is a PRA-authorised person and the approval concerned falls to be given by the PRA.	a requirement under section 59(1) or (2) where the authorised person is a PRA-authorised person and the approval falls to be given by the PRA.	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 204A(4)	"In the case of a contravention of a requirement that is imposed by a qualifying EU provision, “the appropriate regulator” for the purpose of any provision of this Part is whichever of the PRA or the FCA (or both) is specified by the Treasury by order in relation to the qualifying EU provision for the purposes of that provision of this Part."	"In the case of a requirement imposed by a EU provision, “the appropriate regulator” is whichever of the PRA or the FCA (or both) is specified by the Treasury."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 204A(5)	"In the case of a contravention of a requirement where the contravention constitutes an offence, the “appropriate regulator” is whichever of the PRA or the FCA has power to prosecute the offence (see section 401)."	"Where the contravention constitutes an offence, the “appropriate regulator” is whichever of the PRA or the FCA has power to prosecute the offence."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 204A(6)	The FCA is “the appropriate regulator” in the case of a contravention of any other requirement imposed by or under this Act.	The FCA is “the appropriate regulator” in the case of any other requirement imposed by this Act.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 205	"If the appropriate regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a relevant requirement imposed on the person, it may publish a statement to that effect."	"If the regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a requirement, it may publish a statement to that effect."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 206	"If the appropriate regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a relevant requirement imposed on the person, it may impose on him a penalty, in respect of the contravention, of such amount as it considers appropriate."	"If the regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a requirement, it may impose a penalty of such amount as it considers appropriate."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 206A(1)	"If the appropriate regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a relevant requirement imposed on the person, it may— (a) suspend, for such period as it considers appropriate, any permission which the person has to carry on a regulated activity; or (b) impose, for such period as it considers appropriate, such limitations or other restrictions in relation to the carrying on of a regulated activity by the person as it considers appropriate."	"If the regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a requirement, it may— (a) suspend any permission which the person has to carry on a regulated activity; or (b) impose limitations or other restrictions in relation to the carrying on of a regulated activity by the person."	No	No	Yes
FSMA 206A(1)	"If the appropriate regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a relevant requirement imposed on the person, it may—"	"If the regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a requirement, it may—"	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 206A(1)	"suspend, for such period as it considers appropriate, any permission which the person has to carry on a regulated activity; or"	suspend any permission which the person has to carry on a regulated activity; or	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 206A(1)	"impose, for such period as it considers appropriate, such limitations or other restrictions in relation to the carrying on of a regulated activity by the person as it considers appropriate."	impose limitations or other restrictions in relation to the carrying on of a regulated activity by the person.	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 206A(2)	"In subsection (1)— “permission” means any permission that the authorised person has, whether given (or treated as given) by the FCA or the PRA or conferred by any provision of this Act"	“permission” means any permission that the authorised person has given by the FCA or the PRA	No	No	No
FSMA 206A(3)	The period for which a suspension or restriction is to have effect may not exceed 12 months.	A suspension may not exceed 12 months.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 206A(4)	A suspension may relate only to the carrying on of an activity in specified circumstances.	A suspension may relate only to specified circumstances.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 206A(5)	"A restriction may, in particular, be imposed so as to require the person concerned to take, or refrain from taking, specified action."	A restriction may be imposed to require the person to take specified action.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 206A(6)	The appropriate regulator may— (a) withdraw a suspension or restriction; or (b) vary a suspension or restriction so as to reduce the period for which it has effect or otherwise to limit its effect.	The regulator may— (a) withdraw a suspension; or (b) reduce the period for which it has effect or otherwise to limit its effect.	No	No	Yes
FSMA 206A(6)	The appropriate regulator may—	The regulator may—	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 206A(6)	withdraw a suspension or restriction; or	withdraw a suspension; or	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 206A(6)	vary a suspension or restriction so as to reduce the period for which it has effect or otherwise to limit its effect.	reduce the period for which it has effect or otherwise to limit its effect.	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 206A(7)	The power under this section may (but need not) be exercised so as to have effect in relation to all the regulated activities that the person concerned carries on.	The power under this section may be exercised to have effect in relation to all the regulated activities that the person carries on.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 206A(8)	"Any one or more of the powers under— (a) subsection (1)(a) and (b) of this section, and (b) sections 205 and 206, may be exercised in relation to the same contravention."	"Any of the powers under— (a) subsection (1)(a) and (b), and (b) sections 205 and 206, may be exercised in relation to the same contravention."	No	No	Yes
FSMA 206A(8)	Any one or more of the powers under—	Any of the powers under—	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 206A(8)	"subsection (1)(a) and (b) of this section, and"	"subsection (1)(a) and (b), and"	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 208(1)	"If a regulator decides— (a) to publish a statement under section 205 (whether or not in the terms proposed), (b) to impose a penalty under section 206 (whether or not of the amount roposed), or (c) to suspend a permission or impose a restriction under section 206A (whether or not in the manner proposed), it must without delay give the authorised person concerned a decision notice.
"	"If a regulator decides— (a) to publish a statement under section 205, (b) to impose a penalty under section 206, or (c) to suspend a permission or impose a restriction under section 206A, it must give the authorised person a decision notice.
"	No	No	Yes
FSMA 208(1)	"to publish a statement under section 205 (whether or not in the terms proposed),"	"to publish a statement under section 205,"	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 208(1)	"to impose a penalty under section 206 (whether or not of the amount roposed), or"	"to impose a penalty under section 206, or"	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 208(1)	to suspend a permission or impose a restriction under section 206A (whether or not in the manner proposed)	"to suspend a permission or impose a restriction under section 206A,"	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 208(1)	it must without delay give the authorised person concerned a decision notice.	it must give the authorised person a decision notice.	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 209	"After a statement under section 205 is published, the regulator concerned must send a copy of it to the authorised person and to any person on whom a copy of the decision notice was given under section 393(4).
"	"After a statement is published, the regulator must send a copy of it to the authorised person.
"	Yes	No	No
FSMA 210(1)	"Each regulator must prepare and issue a statement of its policy with respect to— (a) the imposition of penalties, suspensions or restrictions under this Part; (b) the amount of penalties under this Part; and (c) the period for which suspensions or restrictions under this Part are to have effect."	Each regulator must issue its policy with respect to— (a) the imposition of penalties or restrictions; (b) the amount of penalties; and (c) the period for which suspensions are to have effect.	No	No	Yes
FSMA 210(1)	Each regulator must prepare and issue a statement of its policy with respect to—	Each regulator must issue its policy with respect to—	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 210(1)	"the imposition of penalties, suspensions or restrictions under this Part;"	the imposition of penalties or restrictions;	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 210(1)	the amount of penalties under this Part; and	the amount of penalties; and	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 210(1)	the period for which suspensions or restrictions under this Part are to have effect.	the period for which suspensions are to have effect.	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 210(1A)	"Each regulator's policy with respect to the imposition of penalties, suspensions or restrictions under this Part must include policy with respect to their imposition in relation to conduct which constitutes or may constitute an offence by virtue of section 23(1A) (authorised persons carrying on credit-related regulated activities otherwise than in accordance with permission)."	Each regulator's policy with respect to the imposition of penalties or restrictions must include policy in relation to conduct which may constitute an offence by virtue of section 23(1A).	Yes	No	No
FSMA 210(2)	"A regulator's policy in determining what the amount of a penalty should be, or what the period for which a suspension or restriction is to have effect should be, must include having regard to— (a) the seriousness of the contravention in question in relation to the nature of the requirement contravened; (b) the extent to which that contravention was deliberate or reckless; and (c) whether the person against whom action is to be taken is an individual."	"A regulator's policy in determining the amount of a penalty, or the period a suspension or restriction is to have effect, must include having regard to— (a) the seriousness of the contravention; (b) the extent to which that contravention was deliberate; and (c) whether the person is an individual."	No	No	Yes
FSMA 210(2)	"A regulator's policy in determining what the amount of a penalty should be, or what the period for which a suspension or restriction is to have effect should be, must include having regard to—"	"A regulator's policy in determining the amount of a penalty, or the period a suspension or restriction is to have effect, must include having regard to—"	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 210(2)	the seriousness of the contravention in question in relation to the nature of the requirement contravened;	the seriousness of the contravention;	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 210(2)	the extent to which that contravention was deliberate or reckless; and	the extent to which that contravention was deliberate; and	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 210(2)	whether the person against whom action is to be taken is an individual.	whether the person is an individual.	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 210(3)	A regulator may at any time alter or replace a statement issued by it under this section.	A regulator may alter a statement issued by it.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 210(4)	"If a statement issued under this section is altered or replaced by a regulator, the regulator must issue the altered or replacement statement."	"If a statement is altered by a regulator, the regulator must issue the altered statement."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 210(5)	"A regulator must, without delay, give the Treasury a copy of any statement which it publishes under this section."	A regulator must give the Treasury a copy of any statement which it publishes under this section.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 210(6)	A statement issued under this section by a regulator must be published by the regulator in the way appearing to the regulator to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of the public.	A statement under this section must be published in the way appearing to the regulator to best bring it to the attention of the public.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 210(7)	"In exercising, or deciding whether to exercise, its power under section 206 or 206 in the case of any particular contravention, a regulator must have regard to any statement published by it under this section and in force at the time when the contravention in question occurred."	"In exercising its power under section 206 or 206, a regulator must have regard to any statement published by it and in force at the time when the contravention in question occurred."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 210(8)	The regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person with a copy of the statement.	The regulator may charge a fee for providing a copy of the statement.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 211(1)	"Before a regulator issues a statement under section 210, the regulator must publish a draft of the proposed statement in the way appearing to the regulator to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of the public."	"Before a regulator issues a statement, the regulator must publish a draft statement in the way appearing to the regulator to best bring it to the attention of the public."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 211(2)	The draft must be accompanied by notice that representations about the proposal may be made to the regulator within a specified time.	The draft must be accompanied by notice that representations may be made to the regulator.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 211(3)	"Before issuing the proposed statement, the regulator must have regard to any representations made to it in accordance with subsection (2)."	"Before issuing the statement, the regulator must have regard to any representations made to it."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 211(4)	"If the regulator issues the proposed statement it must publish an account, in general terms, of— (a) the representations made to it in accordance with subsection (2); and (b) its response to them."	If the regulator issues the proposed statement it must publish an account of— (a) the representations made to it; and (b) its response.	No	No	Yes
FSMA 211(4)	"If the regulator issues the proposed statement it must publish an account, in general terms, of—"	If the regulator issues the proposed statement it must publish an account of—	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 211(4)	the representations made to it in accordance with subsection (2); and	the representations made to it;	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 211(4)	its response to them.	its response.	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 211(5)	"If the statement differs from the draft published under subsection (1) in a way which is, in the opinion of the regulator, significant, the regulator must (in addition to complying with subsection (4)) publish details of the difference."	"If the statement differs from the draft in a way which is significant, the regulator must publish details of the difference."	Yes	No	No
FSMA 211(6)	A regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person with a copy of a draft published under subsection (1).	A regulator may charge a fee for providing a copy of a draft.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 211(7)	This section also applies to a proposal to alter or replace a statement.	This section also applies to a proposal to alter a statement.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 212(1)	The scheme manager” means the body corporate established by the Financial Services Authority under this section as originally enacted.	The scheme manager means the body established by the Financial Services Authority.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 212(2)	"The regulators must take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the scheme manager is, at all times, capable of exercising the functions conferred on it by or under this Part or Part 15A."	The regulators must take steps to ensure the scheme manager is capable of exercising the functions conferred on it.	Yes	No	No
FSMA 212(3)	The constitution of the scheme manager must provide for it to have— (a) a chairman; (aa) a chief executive (who is to be the accounting officer); and (b) a board (which must include the chairman and chief executive ) whose members are the scheme manager’s directors.	The scheme manager must have— (a) a chairman; (aa) a chief executive; and (b) a board whose members are the scheme manager’s directors.	No	No	Yes
FSMA 212(3)	The constitution of the scheme manager must provide for it to have—	The scheme manager must have—	Yes	yes	No
FSMA 212(3)	a chief executive (who is to be the accounting officer)	a chief executive	No	yes	No
FSMA 212(3)	a board (which must include the chairman and chief executive ) whose members are the scheme manager’s directors.	a board whose members are the scheme manager’s directors.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(1)	"The Minister for the Cabinet Office shall issue, and may from time to time revise, a code of practice providing guidance to public authorities as to the practice which it would, in his opinion, be desirable for them to follow in connection with the discharge of the authorities’ functions under Part I."	"The Minister shall issue, and may revise, a code of practice providing guidance to public authorities as to the discharge of the authorities’ functions under Part I."	Yes	No	No
FIA 45(2)	"The code of practice must, in particular, include provision relating to— (a) the provision of advice and assistance by public authorities to persons who propose to make, or have made, requests for information to them, (b) the transfer of requests by one public authority to another public authority by which the information requested is or may be held, (c) consultation with persons to whom the information requested relates or persons whose interests are likely to be affected by the disclosure of information, (d) the inclusion in contracts entered into by public authorities of terms relating to the disclosure of information, (da) the disclosure by public authorities of datasets held by them, and (e) the provision by public authorities of procedures for dealing with complaints about the handling by them of requests for information."	"The code of practice must include provision relating to— (a) the provision of advice by public authorities to persons who propose to make requests for information, (b) the transfer of requests by one public authority to another public authority, (c) consultation with persons to whom the information requested relates, (d) the inclusion in contracts of terms relating to the disclosure of information, (da) the disclosure by public authorities of datasets held by them, and (e) procedures for dealing with complaints about the handling by them of requests for information."	No	No	Yes
FIA 45(2)	"The code of practice must, in particular, include provision relating to—"	The code of practice must include provision relating to—	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2)	"the provision of advice and assistance by public authorities to persons who propose to make, or have made, requests for information to them,"	"the provision of advice by public authorities to persons who propose to make requests for information,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2)	"the transfer of requests by one public authority to another public authority by which the information requested is or may be held,"	"the transfer of requests by one public authority to another public authority,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2)	"consultation with persons to whom the information requested relates or persons whose interests are likely to be affected by the disclosure of information,"	"consultation with persons to whom the information requested relates,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2)	"the inclusion in contracts entered into by public authorities of terms relating to the disclosure of information,"	"the inclusion in contracts of terms relating to the disclosure of information,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2)	"the disclosure by public authorities of datasets held by them, and"	"the disclosure by public authorities of datasets held by them, and"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2)	the provision by public authorities of procedures for dealing with complaints about the handling by them of requests for information.	procedures for dealing with complaints about the handling by them of requests for information.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2A)	"Provision of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(da) may, in particular, include provision relating to— (a) the giving of permission for datasets to be re-used, (b) the disclosure of datasets in an electronic form which is capable of re-use, (c) the making of datasets available for re-use in accordance with the terms of a licence, (d) other matters relating to the making of datasets available for re-use, (e) standards applicable to public authorities in connection with the disclosure of datasets."	"Provision of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(da) may include— (a) permission for datasets to be re-used, (b) disclosure of datasets in an electronic form, (c) making datasets available for re-use in accordance with a licence, (d) other matters relating to making datasets available for re-use, (e) standards applicable to public authorities in connection with the disclosure of datasets."	No	No	Yes
FIA 45(2A)	"Provision of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(da) may, in particular, include provision relating to—"	Provision of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(da) may include—	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2A)	"the giving of permission for datasets to be re-used,"	"permission for datasets to be re-used,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2A)	"the disclosure of datasets in an electronic form which is capable of re-use,"	"disclosure of datasets in an electronic form,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2A)	"the making of datasets available for re-use in accordance with the terms of a licence,"	"making datasets available for re-use in accordance with a licence,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2A)	"other matters relating to the making of datasets available for re-use,"	"other matters relating to making datasets available for re-use,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(2A)	standards applicable to public authorities in connection with the disclosure of datasets.	standards applicable to public authorities in connection with the disclosure of datasets.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 45(4)	"Before issuing or revising any code under this section, the Minister for the Cabinet Office shall consult the Commissioner."	"Before issuing any code under this section, the Minister shall consult the Commissioner."	Yes	No	No
FIA 45(5)	The Minister for the Cabinet Office shall lay before each House of Parliament any code or revised code made under this section.	The Minister shall lay before each House of Parliament any code made under this section.	Yes	No	No
FIA 46(1)	"The Secretary of State shall issue, and may from time to time revise, a code of practice providing guidance to relevant authorities as to the practice which it would, in his opinion, be desirable for them to follow in connection with the keeping, management and destruction of their records."	"The Secretary of State shall issue, and may revise, a code of practice providing guidance to relevant authorities in connection with the keeping, management and destruction of their records."	Yes	No	No
FIA 46(2)	"For the purpose of facilitating the performance by the Public Record Office, the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland and other public authorities of their functions under this Act in relation to records which are public records for the purposes of the Public Records Act 1958 or the Public Records Act (Northern Ireland) 1923, the code may also include guidance as to— (a) the practice to be adopted in relation to the transfer of records under section 3(4) of the Public Records Act 1958 or section 3 of the Public Records Act (Northern Ireland) 1923, and (b) the practice of reviewing records before they are transferred under those provisions."	"The code may also include guidance as to— (a) the transfer of records under section 3(4) of the Public Records Act 1958 or section 3 of the Public Records Act (Northern Ireland) 1923, and (b) the practice of reviewing records before they are transferred."	No	No	Yes
FIA 46(2)	"For the purpose of facilitating the performance by the Public Record Office, the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland and other public authorities of their functions under this Act in relation to records which are public records for the purposes of the Public Records Act 1958 or the Public Records Act (Northern Ireland) 1923, the code may also include guidance as to—"	The code may also include guidance as to—	No	yes	No
FIA 46(2)	"the practice to be adopted in relation to the transfer of records under section 3(4) of the Public Records Act 1958 or section 3 of the Public Records Act (Northern Ireland) 1923, and"	"the transfer of records under section 3(4) of the Public Records Act 1958 or section 3 of the Public Records Act (Northern Ireland) 1923, and"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 46(2)	the practice of reviewing records before they are transferred under those provisions.	the practice of reviewing records before they are transferred.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 46(3)	"In exercising his functions under this section, the Secretary of State shall have regard to the public interest in allowing public access to information held by relevant authorities."	The Secretary of State shall have regard to the public interest in allowing public access to information held by relevant authorities.	Yes	No	No
FIA 47(1)	"It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to promote the following of good practice by public authorities and, in particular, so to perform his functions under this Act as to promote the observance by public authorities of— (a) the requirements of this Act, and (b) the provisions of the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46."	"It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to promote and to perform his functions as to promote the observance by public authorities of— (a) the requirements of this Act, and (b) the provisions of the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46."	No	No	Yes
FIA 47(1)	"It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to promote the following of good practice by public authorities and, in particular, so to perform his functions under this Act as to promote the observance by public authorities of—"	It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to promote and to perform his functions as to promote the observance by public authorities of—	Yes	yes	No
FIA 47(2)	"The Commissioner shall arrange for the dissemination in such form and manner as he considers appropriate of such information as it may appear to him expedient to give to the public— (a) about the operation of this Act, (b) about good practice, and (c) about other matters within the scope of his functions under this Act, and may give advice to any person as to any of those matters.
"	"The Commissioner shall arrange for the dissemination of such information as it may appear to him expedient to give to the public— (a) about the operation of this Act, (b) about good practice, and (c) about his functions, and may give advice as to any of those matters.
"	No	No	Yes
FIA 47(2)	The Commissioner shall arrange for the dissemination in such form and manner as he considers appropriate of such information as it may appear to him expedient to give to the public—	The Commissioner shall arrange for the dissemination of such information as it may appear to him expedient to give to the public—	Yes	yes	No
FIA 47(2)	"about other matters within the scope of his functions under this Act,"	"about his functions,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 47(2)	and may give advice to any person as to any of those matters.	and may give advice as to any of those matters.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 48(1)	"If it appears to the Commissioner that the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act does not conform with that proposed in the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46, he may give to the authority a recommendation (in this section referred to as a “practice recommendation”) specifying the steps which ought in his opinion to be taken for promoting such conformity."	"the Commissioner in relation to the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46, may give to the authority a recommendation specifying the steps to be taken for promoting conformity."	Yes	No	No
FIA 48(2)	"A practice recommendation must be given in writing and must refer to the particular provisions of the code of practice with which, in the Commissioner’s opinion, the public authority’s practice does not conform."	"A practice recommendation must be given in writing and must refer to the provisions of the code which, in the Commissioner’s opinion, the public authority’s practice does not conform."	Yes	No	No
FIA 48(3)	"Before giving to a public authority other than the Public Record Office a practice recommendation which relates to conformity with the code of practice under section 46 in respect of records which are public records for the purposes of the Public Records Act 1958, the Commissioner shall consult the Keeper of Public Records."	Before giving a practice recommendation in respect of public records the Commissioner shall consult the Keeper of Public Records.	Yes	No	No
FIA 50(1)	"Any person (in this section referred to as “the complainant”) may apply to the Commissioner for a decision whether, in any specified respect, a request for information made by the complainant to a public authority has been dealt with in accordance with the requirements of Part I."	Any person may apply to the Commissioner for a decision whether a request for information has been dealt with in accordance with the requirements of Part I.	Yes	No	No
FIA 50(2)	"On receiving an application under this section, the Commissioner shall make a decision unless it appears to him— (a) that the complainant has not exhausted any complaints procedure which is provided by the public authority in conformity with the code of practice under section 45, (b) that there has been undue delay in making the application, (c) that the application is frivolous or vexatious, or (d) that the application has been withdrawn or abandoned."	"On receiving an application, the Commissioner shall make a decision unless— (a) the complainant has not exhausted any complaints procedure provided by the public authority, (b) there has been undue delay in making the application, (c) the application is frivolous, or (d) the application has been abandoned."	No	No	Yes
FIA 50(2)	"On receiving an application under this section, the Commissioner shall make a decision unless it appears to him—"	"On receiving an application, the Commissioner shall make a decision unless—"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(2)	"that the complainant has not exhausted any complaints procedure which is provided by the public authority in conformity with the code of practice under section 45,"	"the complainant has not exhausted any complaints procedure provided by the public authority,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(2)	"that there has been undue delay in making the application,"	"there has been undue delay in making the application,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(2)	that the application has been withdrawn or abandoned.	the application has been abandoned.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(3)	"Where the Commissioner has received an application under this section, he shall either— (a) notify the complainant that he has not made any decision under this section as a result of the application and of his grounds for not doing so, or (b) serve notice of his decision (in this Act referred to as a “decision notice”) on the complainant and the public authority."	"Where the Commissioner has received an application, he shall either— (a) notify the complainant that he has not made any decision and of his grounds for not doing so, or (b) serve notice of his decision on the complainant and the public authority."	No	No	Yes
FIA 50(3)	"Where the Commissioner has received an application under this section, he shall either—"	"Where the Commissioner has received an application, he shall either—"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(3)	"notify the complainant that he has not made any decision under this section as a result of the application and of his grounds for not doing so, or"	"notify the complainant that he has not made any decision and of his grounds for not doing so, or"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(3)	serve notice of his decision (in this Act referred to as a “decision notice”) on the complainant and the public authority.	serve notice of his decision on the complainant and the public authority.	No	yes	No
FIA 50(4)	"Where the Commissioner decides that a public authority— (a) has failed to communicate information, or to provide confirmation or denial, in a case where it is required to do so by section 1(1), or (b) has failed to comply with any of the requirements of sections 11 and 17, the decision notice must specify the steps which must be taken by the authority for complying with that requirement and the period within which they must be taken."	"Where the Commissioner decides that a public authority— (a) has failed to communicate information, or (b) has failed to comply with the requirements of sections 11 and 17, the decision notice must specify the steps which must be taken by the authority for complying with that requirement."	No	No	Yes
FIA 50(4)	"has failed to communicate information, or to provide confirmation or denial, in a case where it is required to do so by section 1(1),"	"has failed to communicate information, or"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(4)	"has failed to comply with any of the requirements of sections 11 and 17,"	"has failed to comply with the requirements of sections 11 and 17,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(4)	the decision notice must specify the steps which must be taken by the authority for complying with that requirement and the period within which they must be taken.	the decision notice must specify the steps which must be taken by the authority for complying with that requirement.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 50(5)	A decision notice must contain particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 57.	A decision notice must contain the right of appeal.	Yes	No	No
FIA 50(6)	"Where a decision notice requires steps to be taken by the public authority within a specified period, the time specified in the notice must not expire before the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and, if such an appeal is brought, no step which is affected by the appeal need be taken pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal."	"Where a decision notice requires steps to be taken within a specified period, the time specified must not expire before the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought and, if an appeal is brought, no step which is affected by the appeal need be taken pending the determination of the appeal."	Yes	No	No
FIA 51(1)	"If the Commissioner— (a) has received an application under section 50, or (b) reasonably requires any information— (i) for the purpose of determining whether a public authority has complied or is complying with any of the requirements of Part I, or (ii) for the purpose of determining whether the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act conforms with that proposed in the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46, he may serve the authority with a notice (in this Act referred to as “an information notice”) requiring it, within such time as is specified in the notice, to furnish the Commissioner, in such form as may be so specified, with such information relating to the application, to compliance with Part I or to conformity with the code of practice as is so specified."	"If the Commissioner— (a) has received an application under section 50, or (b) requires any information— (i) for the purpose of determining whether a public authority is complying with the requirements of Part I, or (ii) for the purpose of determining whether the practice of a public authority conforms with the codes of practice, he may serve a notice requiring it to furnish the Commissioner with information relating to the application or to conformity with the code of practice."	No	No	Yes
FIA 51(1)	"for the purpose of determining whether a public authority has complied or is complying with any of the requirements of Part I, or"	"for the purpose of determining whether a public authority is complying with the requirements of Part I, or"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 51(1)	"for the purpose of determining whether the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act conforms with that proposed in the codes of practice under sections 45 and 46,"	"for the purpose of determining whether the practice of a public authority conforms with the codes of practice,"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 51(1)	"he may serve the authority with a notice (in this Act referred to as “an information notice”) requiring it, within such time as is specified in the notice, to furnish the Commissioner, in such form as may be so specified, with such information relating to the application, to compliance with Part I or to conformity with the code of practice as is so specified."	he may serve a notice requiring it to furnish the Commissioner with information relating to the application or to conformity with the code of practice.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 51(3)	An information notice must also contain particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 57.	An information notice must also contain the right of appeal conferred by section 57.	Yes	No	No
FIA 51(5)	"The time specified in an information notice must not expire before the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and, if such an appeal is brought, the information need not be furnished pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal."	"The time specified in an information notice must not expire before the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought and, if such an appeal is brought, the information need not be furnished pending the determination of the appeal."	Yes	No	No
FIA 51(5)	"An authority shall not be required by virtue of this section to furnish the Commissioner with any information in respect of— (a) any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client in connection with the giving of legal advice to the client with respect to his obligations, liabilities or rights under this Act, or (b) any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client, or between such an adviser or his client and any other person, made in connection with or in contemplation of proceedings under or arising out of this Act (including proceedings before the Tribunal) and for the purposes of such proceedings."	"An authority shall not be required to furnish any information in respect of— (a) any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client in connection with legal advice with respect to this Act, or (b) any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client in connection with proceedings arising out of this Act."	No	No	Yes
FIA 51(5)	An authority shall not be required by virtue of this section to furnish the Commissioner with any information in respect of—	An authority shall not be required to furnish any information in respect of—	Yes	yes	No
FIA 51(5)	"any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client in connection with the giving of legal advice to the client with respect to his obligations, liabilities or rights under this Act, or"	"any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client in connection with legal advice with respect to this Act, or"	Yes	yes	No
FIA 51(5)	"any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client, or between such an adviser or his client and any other person, made in connection with or in contemplation of proceedings under or arising out of this Act (including proceedings before the Tribunal) and for the purposes of such proceedings."	any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client in connection with proceedings arising out of this Act.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 51(6)	In subsection (5) references to the client of a professional legal adviser include references to any person representing such a client.	references to the client include references to any person representing such a client.	Yes	yes	No
FIA 51(7)	The Commissioner may cancel an information notice by written notice to the authority on which it was served.	The Commissioner may cancel an information notice by written notice.	Yes	No	No
MCA 1(6)	"Before the act is done, or the decision is made, regard must be had to whether the purpose for which it is needed can be as effectively achieved in a way that is less restrictive of the person's rights and freedom of action."	Before the act is done regard must be had to whether it can be achieved in a way that is less restrictive of the person's rights.	Yes	No	No
MCA 2(1)	"For the purposes of this Act, a person lacks capacity in relation to a matter if at the material time he is unable to make a decision for himself in relation to the matter because of an impairment of, or a disturbance in the functioning of, the mind or brain."	a person lacks capacity if he is unable to make a decision for himself in relation to the matter because of an impairment of the mind or brain.	Yes	No	No
MCA 2(2)	It does not matter whether the impairment or disturbance is permanent or temporary.	It does not matter whether the impairment is permanent.	Yes	No	No
MCA 2(3)	"A lack of capacity cannot be established merely by reference to— (a) a person's age or appearance, or (b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."	"A lack of capacity cannot be established merely by reference to— (a) a person's age or appearance, or (b) a condition which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions."	No	No	Yes
MCA 2(3)	"a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."	a condition which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 2(4)	"In proceedings under this Act or any other enactment, any question whether a person lacks capacity within the meaning of this Act must be decided on the balance of probabilities."	any question whether a person lacks capacity must be decided on the balance of probabilities.	Yes	No	No
MCA 3(1)	"For the purposes of section 2, a person is unable to make a decision for himself if he is unable— (a) to understand the information relevant to the decision, (b) to retain that information, (c) to use or weigh that information as part of the process of making the decision, or (d) to communicate his decision (whether by talking, using sign language or any other means)."	"a person is unable to make a decision if he is unable— (a) to understand the information relevant to the decision, (b) to retain that information, (c) to use or weigh that information, or (d) to communicate his decision."	No	No	Yes
MCA 3(1)	"For the purposes of section 2, a person is unable to make a decision for himself if he is unable—"	a person is unable to make a decision if he is unable—	Yes	yes	No
MCA 3(1)	"to use or weigh that information as part of the process of making the decision, or"	"to use or weigh that information, or"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 3(1)	"to communicate his decision (whether by talking, using sign language or any other means)."	to communicate his decision.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 3(2)	"A person is not to be regarded as unable to understand the information relevant to a decision if he is able to understand an explanation of it given to him in a way that is appropriate to his circumstances (using simple language, visual aids or any other means)."	"A person is not to be regarded as unable to understand the information relevant to a decision if he is able to understand an explanation appropriate to his circumstances (using simple language, visual aids or any other means)."	Yes	No	No
MCA 3(3)	The fact that a person is able to retain the information relevant to a decision for a short period only does not prevent him from being regarded as able to make the decision.	The fact that a person is able to retain information for a short period only does not prevent him from being able to make the decision.	Yes	No	No
MCA 3(4)	"The information relevant to a decision includes information about the reasonably foreseeable consequences of— (a) deciding one way or another, or (b) failing to make the decision."	"The information relevant to a decision includes the consequences of— (a) deciding one way or another, or (b) failing to make the decision."	No	No	Yes
MCA 3(4)	The information relevant to a decision includes information about the reasonably foreseeable consequences of—	The information relevant to a decision includes the consequences of—	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(1)	"In determining for the purposes of this Act what is in a person's best interests, the person making the determination must not make it merely on the basis of— (a) the person's age or appearance, or (b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about what might be in his best interests."	"In determining what is in a person's best interests, the person making the determination must not make it merely on the basis of— (a) the person's age or appearance, or (b) a condition of his which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions."	No	No	Yes
MCA 4(1)	"In determining for the purposes of this Act what is in a person's best interests, the person making the determination must not make it merely on the basis of—"	"In determining what is in a person's best interests, the person making the determination must not make it merely on the basis of—"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(1)	"a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about what might be in his best interests."	a condition of his which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(2)	"The person making the determination must consider all the relevant circumstances and, in particular, take the following steps."	The person making the determination must consider all the relevant circumstances and take the following steps.	Yes	No	No
MCA 4(3)	"He must consider— (a) whether it is likely that the person will at some time have capacity in relation to the matter in question, and (b) if it appears likely that he will, when that is likely to be."	"He must consider— (a) whether it is likely that the person will at some time have capacity, and (b) when that is likely to be."	No	No	Yes
MCA 4(3)	"whether it is likely that the person will at some time have capacity in relation to the matter in question, and"	"whether it is likely that the person will at some time have capacity, and"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(3)	"if it appears likely that he will, when that is likely to be."	when that is likely to be.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(4)	"He must, so far as reasonably practicable, permit and encourage the person to participate, or to improve his ability to participate, as fully as possible in any act done for him and any decision affecting him."	He must permit the person to participate as fully as possible in any act done for him.	Yes	No	No
MCA 4(5)	"Where the determination relates to life-sustaining treatment he must not, in considering whether the treatment is in the best interests of the person concerned, be motivated by a desire to bring about his death."	Where the determination relates to life-sustaining treatment he must not be motivated by a desire to bring about his death.	Yes	No	No
MCA 4(6)	"He must consider, so far as is reasonably ascertainable— (a) the person's past and present wishes and feelings (and, in particular, any relevant written statement made by him when he had capacity), (b) the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision if he had capacity, and (c) the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so."	"He must consider— (a) the person's past and present wishes and feelings, (b) the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision, and (c) the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so."	No	No	Yes
MCA 4(6)	"He must consider, so far as is reasonably ascertainable—"	He must consider—	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(6)	"the person's past and present wishes and feelings (and, in particular, any relevant written statement made by him when he had capacity),"	"the person's past and present wishes and feelings,"	No	yes	No
MCA 4(6)	"the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision if he had capacity, and"	"the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision, and"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(6)	the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so.	the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(7)	"He must take into account, if it is practicable and appropriate to consult them, the views of— (a) anyone named by the person as someone to be consulted on the matter in question or on matters of that kind, (b) anyone engaged in caring for the person or interested in his welfare, (c) any donee of a lasting power of attorney granted by the person, and (d) any deputy appointed for the person by the court, as to what would be in the person's best interests and, in particular, as to the matters mentioned in subsection (6)."	"He must take into account, if appropriate, the views of— (a) anyone named as someone to be consulted on, (b) anyone engaged in caring for the person, (c) any donee of a lasting power of attorney, and (d) any deputy appointed by the court, as to what would be in the person's best interests."	No	No	Yes
MCA 4(7)	"He must take into account, if it is practicable and appropriate to consult them, the views of—"	"He must take into account, if appropriate, the views of—"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(7)	"anyone named by the person as someone to be consulted on the matter in question or on matters of that kind,"	"anyone named as someone to be consulted on,"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(7)	"anyone engaged in caring for the person or interested in his welfare,"	"anyone engaged in caring for the person,"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(7)	"any donee of a lasting power of attorney granted by the person, and"	"any donee of a lasting power of attorney, and"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(7)	"any deputy appointed for the person by the court,"	"any deputy appointed by the court,"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(7)	"as to what would be in the person's best interests and, in particular, as to the matters mentioned in subsection (6)."	as to what would be in the person's best interests.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(8)	"The duties imposed by subsections (1) to (7) also apply in relation to the exercise of any powers which— (a) are exercisable under a lasting power of attorney, or (b) are exercisable by a person under this Act where he reasonably believes that another person lacks capacity."	"The duties imposed by subsections (1) to (7) also apply to powers which— (a) are exercisable under a power of attorney, or (b) are exercisable by a person where he believes that another person lacks capacity."	No	No	Yes
MCA 4(8)	The duties imposed by subsections (1) to (7) also apply in relation to the exercise of any powers which—	The duties imposed by subsections (1) to (7) also apply to powers which—	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(8)	"are exercisable under a lasting power of attorney, or"	"are exercisable under a power of attorney, or"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(8)	are exercisable by a person under this Act where he reasonably believes that another person lacks capacity.	are exercisable by a person where he believes that another person lacks capacity.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(9)	"In the case of an act done, or a decision made, by a person other than the court, there is sufficient compliance with this section if (having complied with the requirements of subsections (1) to (7)) he reasonably believes that what he does or decides is in the best interests of the person concerned."	"In the case of an act done by a person, there is compliance with this section if (having complied with the requirements of subsections (1) to (7)) he reasonably believes that what he does is in the best interests of the person concerned."	Yes	No	No
MCA 4(10)	“Life-sustaining treatment” means treatment which in the view of a person providing health care for the person concerned is necessary to sustain life.	“Life-sustaining treatment” means treatment which is necessary to sustain life.	Yes	No	No
MCA 4(11)	"“Relevant circumstances” are those— (a) of which the person making the determination is aware, and (b) which it would be reasonable to regard as relevant."	"“Relevant circumstances” are those— (a) of which the person is aware, and (b) which would be relevant."	No	No	Yes
MCA 4(11)	“Relevant circumstances” are those—	“Relevant circumstances” are those—	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(11)	"of which the person making the determination is aware, and"	"of which the person is aware, and"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4(11)	which it would be reasonable to regard as relevant.	which would be relevant.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4A(1)	This Act does not authorise any person (“D”) to deprive any other person (“P”) of his liberty.	This Act does not authorise any person to deprive any other person of his liberty.	Yes	No	No
MCA 4A(2)	"But that is subject to— (a) the following provisions of this section, and (b) section 4B."	"But that is subject to— (a) this section, and (b) section 4B."	No	No	Yes
MCA 4A(2)	But that is subject to—	But that is subject to—	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4A(2)	"the following provisions of this section, and"	"this section, and"	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4A(2)	section 4B.	section 4B.	Yes	yes	No
MCA 4A(3)	"D may deprive P of his liberty if, by doing so, D is giving effect to a relevant decision of the court."	D may deprive P of his liberty if D is giving effect to a decision of the court.	Yes	No	No
MCA 4A(4)	A relevant decision of the court is a decision made by an order under section 16(2)(a) in relation to a matter concerning P's personal welfare.	A relevant decision of the court is a decision made by an order in relation to P's personal welfare.	Yes	No	No
MCA 4A(5)	D may deprive P of his liberty if the deprivation is authorised by Schedule A1 (hospital and care home residents: deprivation of liberty).	D may deprive P of his liberty if the deprivation is authorised by Schedule A1.	No	No	No
EA 13(1)	"A person (A) discriminates against another (B) if, because of a protected characteristic, A treats B less favourably than A treats or would treat others."	"A person (A) discriminates against another (B) if, because of a protected characteristic, A treats B less favourably than A treats others."	Yes	No	No
EA 13(2)	"If the protected characteristic is age, A does not discriminate against B if A can show A's treatment of B to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim."	"If the protected characteristic is age, A does not discriminate if A can show A's treatment to be proportionate."	Yes	No	No
EA 13(3)	"If the protected characteristic is disability, and B is not a disabled person, A does not discriminate against B only because A treats or would treat disabled persons more favourably than A treats B."	"If the protected characteristic is disability, and B is not disabled, A does not discriminate against B only because A treats disabled persons more favourably than A treats B."	Yes	No	No
EA 13(4)	"If the protected characteristic is marriage and civil partnership, this section applies to a contravention of Part 5 (work) only if the treatment is because it is B who is married or a civil partner."	"If the protected characteristic is marriage and civil partnership, this section applies only if the treatment is because it is B who is married or a civil partner."	Yes	No	No
EA 13(5)	"If the protected characteristic is race, less favourable treatment includes segregating B from others."	"If the protected characteristic is race, less favourable treatment includes segregating B."	Yes	No	No
EA 13(6)	"If the protected characteristic is sex— (a) less favourable treatment of a woman includes less favourable treatment of her because she is breast-feeding; (b) in a case where B is a man, no account is to be taken of special treatment afforded to a woman in connection with pregnancy or childbirth."	"If the protected characteristic is sex— (a) less favourable treatment includes less favourable treatment of breast-feeding; (b) where B is a man, no account is to be taken of special treatment afforded to a woman in connection with pregnancy."	No	No	Yes
EA 13(6)	less favourable treatment of a woman includes less favourable treatment of her because she is breast-feeding;	less favourable treatment includes less favourable treatment of breast-feeding;	Yes	yes	No
EA 13(6)	"in a case where B is a man, no account is to be taken of special treatment afforded to a woman in connection with pregnancy or childbirth."	"where B is a man, no account is to be taken of special treatment afforded to a woman in connection with pregnancy."	Yes	yes	No
EA 15(1)	"A person (A) discriminates against a disabled person (B) if— (a) A treats B unfavourably because of something arising in consequence of B's disability, and (b) A cannot show that the treatment is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim."	"A person (A) discriminates against a disabled person (B) if— (a) A treats B unfavourably because of B's disability, and (b) A cannot show that the treatment is proportionate."	No	No	Yes
EA 15(2)	"Subsection (1) does not apply if A shows that A did not know, and could not reasonably have been expected to know, that B had the disability."	Subsection (1) does not apply if A did not know that B had the disability.	Yes	No	No
EA 16(1)	This section has effect for the purposes of the application of Part 5 (work) to the protected characteristic of gender reassignment.	This section has effect for the purposes of the protected characteristic of gender reassignment.	Yes	No	No
EA 16(2)	"A person (A) discriminates against a transsexual person (B) if, in relation to an absence of B's that is because of gender reassignment, A treats B less favourably than A would treat B if— (a) B's absence was because of sickness or injury, or (b) B's absence was for some other reason and it is not reasonable for B to be treated less favourably."	"A person (A) discriminates against a transsexual person (B) if, in relation to an absence because of gender reassignment, A treats B less favourably than if— (a) B's absence was because of sickness, or (b) B's absence was for some other reason and it is not reasonable for B to be treated less favourably."	No	No	Yes
EA 16(2)	"A person (A) discriminates against a transsexual person (B) if, in relation to an absence of B's that is because of gender reassignment, A treats B less favourably than A would treat B if—"	"A person (A) discriminates against a transsexual person (B) if, in relation to an absence because of gender reassignment, A treats B less favourably than if—"	Yes	yes	No
EA 16(2)	"B's absence was because of sickness or injury, or"	"B's absence was because of sickness, or"	Yes	yes	No
EA 16(2)	B's absence was for some other reason and it is not reasonable for B to be treated less favourably.	B's absence was for some other reason and it is not reasonable for B to be treated less favourably.	Yes	yes	No
EA 16(3)	"A person's absence is because of gender reassignment if it is because the person is proposing to undergo, is undergoing or has undergone the process (or part of the process) mentioned in section 7(1)."	A person's absence is because of gender reassignment if the person is undergoing the process mentioned in section 7(1).	Yes	No	No
EA 17(2)	A person (A) discriminates against a woman if A treats her unfavourably because of a pregnancy of hers.	A person (A) discriminates against a woman if A treats her unfavourably because of pregnancy.	Yes	No	No
EA 17(3)	"A person (A) discriminates against a woman if, in the period of 26 weeks beginning with the day on which she gives birth, A treats her unfavourably because she has given birth."	A person (A) discriminates against a woman if A treats her unfavourably because she has given birth.	Yes	No	No
EA 17(4)	"The reference in subsection (3) to treating a woman unfavourably because she has given birth includes, in particular, a reference to treating her unfavourably because she is breast-feeding."	Treating a woman unfavourably because she has given birth includes treating her unfavourably because she is breast-feeding.	Yes	No	No
EA 17(5)	"For the purposes of this section, the day on which a woman gives birth is the day on which— (a) she gives birth to a living child, or (b) she gives birth to a dead child (more than 24 weeks of the pregnancy having passed)."	"The day on which a woman gives birth is the day— (a) she gives birth to a living child, or (b) she gives birth to a dead child (more than 24 weeks of the pregnancy having passed)."	No	No	Yes
EA 17(5)	"For the purposes of this section, the day on which a woman gives birth is the day on which—"	The day on which a woman gives birth is the day—	Yes	yes	No
EA 17(5)	"she gives birth to a living child, or"	"she gives birth to a living child, or"	Yes	yes	No
EA 17(5)	she gives birth to a dead child (more than 24 weeks of the pregnancy having passed).	she gives birth to a dead child (more than 24 weeks of the pregnancy having passed).	No	yes	No
EA 18(1)	This section has effect for the purposes of the application of Part 5 (work) to the protected characteristic of pregnancy and maternity.	This section has effect for the purposes of the protected characteristic of pregnancy and maternity.	Yes	No	No
EA 18(2)	"A person (A) discriminates against a woman if, in the protected period in relation to a pregnancy of hers, A treats her unfavourably— (a) because of the pregnancy, or (b) because of illness suffered by her as a result of it."	"A person (A) discriminates against a woman if, in relation to a pregnancy, A treats her unfavourably— (a) because of the pregnancy, or (b) because of illness suffered as a result of it."	No	No	Yes
EA 18(2)	"A person (A) discriminates against a woman if, in the protected period in relation to a pregnancy of hers, A treats her unfavourably—"	"A person (A) discriminates against a woman if, in relation to a pregnancy, A treats her unfavourably—"	Yes	yes	No
EA 18(2)	"because of the pregnancy, or"	"because of the pregnancy, or"	Yes	yes	No
EA 18(2)	because of illness suffered by her as a result of it.	because of illness suffered as a result of it.	Yes	yes	No
EA 18(4)	"A person (A) discriminates against a woman if A treats her unfavourably because she is exercising or seeking to exercise, or has exercised or sought to exercise, the right to ordinary or additional maternity leave."	A person (A) discriminates against a woman if A treats her unfavourably because she is exercising the right to ordinary or additional maternity leave.	Yes	No	No
EA 18(5)	"For the purposes of subsection (2), if the treatment of a woman is in implementation of a decision taken in the protected period, the treatment is to be regarded as occurring in that period (even if the implementation is not until after the end of that period)."	"For the purposes of subsection (2), if the treatment is a decision taken in the protected period, the treatment is to be regarded as occurring in that period."	Yes	No	No
EA 18(6)	"The protected period, in relation to a woman's pregnancy, begins when the pregnancy begins, and ends— (a) if she has the right to ordinary and additional maternity leave, at the end of the additional maternity leave period or (if earlier) when she returns to work after the pregnancy; (b) if she does not have that right, at the end of the period of 2 weeks beginning with the end of the pregnancy."	"The protected period begins when the pregnancy begins, and ends— (a) if she has the right to ordinary and additional maternity leave, at the end of the additional maternity leave period; (b) if she does not have that right, at the end of 2 weeks beginning with the end of the pregnancy."	No	No	Yes
EA 18(6)	"The protected period, in relation to a woman's pregnancy, begins when the pregnancy begins, and ends—"	"The protected period begins when the pregnancy begins, and ends—"	Yes	yes	No
EA 18(6)	"if she has the right to ordinary and additional maternity leave, at the end of the additional maternity leave period or (if earlier) when she returns to work after the pregnancy;"	"if she has the right to ordinary and additional maternity leave, at the end of the additional maternity leave period;"	No	yes	No
EA 18(6)	"if she does not have that right, at the end of the period of 2 weeks beginning with the end of the pregnancy."	"if she does not have that right, at the end of 2 weeks beginning with the end of the pregnancy."	Yes	yes	No
EA 19(1)	A person (A) discriminates against another (B) if A applies to B a practice which is discriminatory to a protected characteristic of B's.	A person (A) discriminates against another (B) if A applies to B a practice which is discriminatory to a protected characteristic of B's.	Yes	No	No
EA 19(2)	"For the purposes of subsection (1), a provision, criterion or practice is discriminatory in relation to a relevant protected characteristic of B's if— (a) A applies, or would apply, it to persons with whom B does not share the characteristic, (b) it puts, or would put, persons with whom B shares the characteristic at a particular disadvantage when compared with persons with whom B does not share it, (c) it puts, or would put, B at that disadvantage, and (d) A cannot show it to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim."	"A practice is discriminatory if— (a) A applies it to persons with whom B does not share the characteristic, (b) it puts persons with whom B shares the characteristic at a particular disadvantage, (c) it puts B at that disadvantage, and (d) A cannot show it to be proportionate."	No	No	Yes
EA 19(2)	"For the purposes of subsection (1), a provision, criterion or practice is discriminatory in relation to a relevant protected characteristic of B's if—"	A practice is discriminatory if—	Yes	yes	No
EA 19(2)	"A applies, or would apply, it to persons with whom B does not share the characteristic,"	"A applies it to persons with whom B does not share the characteristic,"	Yes	yes	No
EA 19(2)	"it puts, or would put, persons with whom B shares the characteristic at a particular disadvantage when compared with persons with whom B does not share it,"	"it puts persons with whom B shares the characteristic at a particular disadvantage,"	Yes	yes	No
EA 19(2)	"it puts, or would put, B at that disadvantage, and"	"it puts B at that disadvantage, and"	Yes	yes	No
EA 19(2)	A cannot show it to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.	A cannot show it to be proportionate.	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(3)	"The first requirement is a requirement, where a provision, criterion or practice of A's puts a disabled person at a substantial disadvantage in relation to a relevant matter in comparison with persons who are not disabled, to take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to avoid the disadvantage."	"The first is a requirement, where a practice of A's puts a disabled person at a disadvantage, to take such steps as it is reasonable to avoid the disadvantage."	Yes	No	No
EA 20(4)	"The second requirement is a requirement, where a physical feature puts a disabled person at a substantial disadvantage in relation to a relevant matter in comparison with persons who are not disabled, to take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to avoid the disadvantage."	"The second is a requirement, where a physical feature puts a disabled person at a disadvantage, to take such steps as it is reasonable to avoid the disadvantage."	Yes	No	No
EA 20(5)	"The third requirement is a requirement, where a disabled person would, but for the provision of an auxiliary aid, be put at a substantial disadvantage in relation to a relevant matter in comparison with persons who are not disabled, to take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to provide the auxiliary aid."	"The third is a requirement, where a disabled person would, but for an auxiliary aid, be put at a disadvantage, to take such steps as it is reasonable to provide the auxiliary aid."	Yes	No	No
EA 20(6)	"Where the first or third requirement relates to the provision of information, the steps which it is reasonable for A to have to take include steps for ensuring that in the circumstances concerned the information is provided in an accessible format."	"Where the first or third requirement relates to the provision of information, the steps include ensuring that the information is provided in an accessible format."	Yes	No	No
EA 20(7)	"A person (A) who is subject to a duty to make reasonable adjustments is not (subject to express provision to the contrary) entitled to require a disabled person, in relation to whom A is required to comply with the duty, to pay to any extent A's costs of complying with the duty."	A person (A) who is subject to a duty to make reasonable adjustments is not entitled to require a disabled person to pay A's costs.	Yes	No	No
EA 20(9)	"In relation to the second requirement, a reference in this section or an applicable Schedule to avoiding a substantial disadvantage includes a reference to— (a) removing the physical feature in question, (b) altering it, or (c) providing a reasonable means of avoiding it."	"Avoiding a disadvantage includes— (a) removing the physical feature, (b) altering it, or (c) providing a reasonable means of avoiding it."	No	No	Yes
EA 20(9)	"In relation to the second requirement, a reference in this section or an applicable Schedule to avoiding a substantial disadvantage includes a reference to—"	Avoiding a disadvantage includes—	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(9)	"removing the physical feature in question,"	"removing the physical feature,"	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(9)	"altering it, or"	"altering it, or"	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(9)	providing a reasonable means of avoiding it.	providing a reasonable means of avoiding it.	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(10)	"A reference in this section, section 21 or 22 or an applicable Schedule (apart from paragraphs 2 to 4 of Schedule 4) to a physical feature is a reference to— (a) a feature arising from the design or construction of a building, (b) a feature of an approach to, exit from or access to a building, (c) a fixture or fitting, or furniture, furnishings, materials, equipment or other chattels, in or on premises, or (d) any other physical element or quality."	"A physical feature is— (a) a feature arising from the design of a building, (b) a feature of access to a building, (c) a fixture or fitting on premises, or (d) any other physical element."	No	No	Yes
EA 20(10)	"A reference in this section, section 21 or 22 or an applicable Schedule (apart from paragraphs 2 to 4 of Schedule 4) to a physical feature is a reference to—"	A physical feature is—	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(10)	"a feature arising from the design or construction of a building, (b) a feature of an approach to, exit from or access to a building,"	"a feature arising from the design of a building,"	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(10)	"a feature of an approach to, exit from or access to a building,"	"a feature of access to a building,"	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(10)	"a fixture or fitting, or furniture, furnishings, materials, equipment or other chattels, in or on premises, or"	"a fixture or fitting on premises, or"	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(10)	any other physical element or quality.	any other physical element.	Yes	yes	No
EA 20(11)	"A reference in this section, section 21 or 22 or an applicable Schedule to an auxiliary aid includes a reference to an auxiliary service."	Auxiliary aid includes an auxiliary service.	Yes	No	No
EA 20(12)	"A reference in this section or an applicable Schedule to chattels is to be read, in relation to Scotland, as a reference to moveable property."	"Chattels is to be read, in relation to Scotland, as a reference to moveable property."	Yes	No	No
EA 21(1)	"A failure to comply with the first, second or third requirement is a failure to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments."	"A failure to comply with the first, second or third requirement is a failure to make reasonable adjustments."	Yes	No	No
EA 21(2)	A discriminates against a disabled person if A fails to comply with that duty in relation to that person.	A discriminates against a disabled person if A fails to comply with that duty.	Yes	No	No
EA 22(1)	"Regulations may prescribe— (a) matters to be taken into account in deciding whether it is reasonable for A to take a step for the purposes of a prescribed provision of an applicable Schedule; (b) descriptions of persons to whom the first, second or third requirement does not apply."	"Regulations may prescribe— (a) matters to be taken into account in deciding whether it is reasonable for A to take a step; (b) descriptions of persons to whom the first, second or third requirement does not apply."	No	No	Yes
EA 22(1)	Regulations may prescribe—	Regulations may prescribe—	No	yes	No
EA 22(1)	matters to be taken into account in deciding whether it is reasonable for A to take a step for the purposes of a prescribed provision of an applicable Schedule;	matters to be taken into account in deciding whether it is reasonable for A to take a step;	Yes	yes	No
EA 22(1)	"descriptions of persons to whom the first, second or third requirement does not apply."	"descriptions of persons to whom the first, second or third requirement does not apply."	Yes	yes	No
EA 22(2)	"Regulations may make provision as to— (a) circumstances in which it is, or in which it is not, reasonable for a person of a prescribed description to have to take steps of a prescribed description; (b) what is, or what is not, a provision, criterion or practice; (c) things which are, or which are not, to be treated as physical features; (d) things which are, or which are not, to be treated as alterations of physical features; (e) things which are, or which are not, to be treated as auxiliary aids."	Regulations may make provision as to— (a) circumstances in which it is reasonable for a person to have to take steps; (b) what is a practice; (c) things which are physical features; (d) things which are alterations of physical features; (e) things which are auxiliary aids.	No	No	Yes
EA 22(2)	Regulations may make provision as to—	Regulations may make provision as to—	No	yes	No
EA 22(2)	"circumstances in which it is, or in which it is not, reasonable for a person of a prescribed description to have to take steps of a prescribed description;"	circumstances in which it is reasonable for a person to have to take steps;	Yes	yes	No
EA 22(2)	"what is, or what is not, a provision, criterion or practice;"	what is a practice;	Yes	yes	No
EA 22(2)	"things which are, or which are not, to be treated as physical features;"	things which are physical features;	Yes	yes	No
EA 22(2)	"things which are, or which are not, to be treated as alterations of physical features;"	things which are alterations of physical features;	Yes	yes	No
EA 22(2)	"things which are, or which are not, to be treated as auxiliary aids."	things which are auxiliary aids.	Yes	yes	No
EA 23(1)	"On a comparison of cases for the purposes of section 13, 14, or 19 there must be no material difference between the circumstances relating to each case."	On a comparison of cases there must be no material difference between the circumstances.	Yes	No	No
EA 23(2)	"The circumstances relating to a case include a person's abilities if— (a) on a comparison for the purposes of section 13, the protected characteristic is disability; (b) on a comparison for the purposes of section 14, one of the protected characteristics in the combination is disability."	"Circumstances include abilities if— (a) for the purposes of section 13, the protected characteristic is disability; (b) for the purposes of section 14, one of the protected characteristics is disability."	No	No	Yes
EA 23(2)	The circumstances relating to a case include a person's abilities if—	Circumstances include abilities if—	Yes	yes	No
EA 23(2)	"on a comparison for the purposes of section 13, the protected characteristic is disability;"	"for the purposes of section 13, the protected characteristic is disability;"	Yes	yes	No
EA 23(2)	"on a comparison for the purposes of section 14, one of the protected characteristics in the combination is disability."	"for the purposes of section 14, one of the protected characteristics is disability."	Yes	yes	No
EA 23(3)	"If the protected characteristic is sexual orientation, the fact that one person (whether or not the person referred to as B) is a civil partner while another is married to a person of the opposite sex is not a material difference between the circumstances relating to each case."	"If the protected characteristic is sexual orientation, the fact that one person is a civil partner while another is married to a person of the opposite sex is not a material difference between circumstances."	Yes	No	No
EA 23(4)	"If the protected characteristic is sexual orientation, the fact that one person (whether or not the person referred to as B) is married to a person of the same sex while another is married to a person of the opposite sex is not a material difference between the circumstances relating to each case."	"If the protected characteristic is sexual orientation, the fact that one person is married to a person of the same sex while another is married to a person of the opposite sex is not a material difference between circumstances."	Yes	No	No
EA 24(1)	"For the purpose of establishing a contravention of this Act by virtue of section 13(1), it does not matter whether A has the protected characteristic."	"For the purpose of establishing a contravention of this Act, it does not matter whether A has the protected characteristic."	Yes	No	No
CRGA 27(4)	"In paragraph 1(e) “lay person” means a person who is not, and has never been, a member of either House of Parliament."	In paragraph 1(e) “lay person” means a person who has never been a member of either House of Parliament.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 27(4)	A motion for a resolution under paragraph 1(e) may be made only with the agreement of the Speaker of the House of Commons.	A motion for a resolution may be made only with the agreement of the Speaker.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 27(4)	The person the subject of the motion must have been selected by the Speaker on merit on the basis of fair and open competition.	The person must have been selected by the Speaker on merit.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 27(4)	An appointment under paragraph 1(e) is to be for a fixed term not exceeding five years.	An appointment is to be for a fixed term not exceeding five years.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 27(4)	A person who has been appointed under paragraph 1(e) may not be appointed under paragraph 1(e) again.	A person who has been appointed under paragraph 1(e) may not be appointed again.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 27(4)	A person appointed under paragraph 1(e) ceases to be a member of the Committee if the person becomes a member of either House of Parliament.	A person ceases to be a member of the Committee if the person becomes a member of either House of Parliament.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 27(4)	A person appointed under paragraph 1(e) may resign from the Committee by giving notice to the Committee.	A person may resign from the Committee by giving notice.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 27(4)	The Speaker of the House of Commons may require the IPSA to pay to members of the Committee appointed under paragraph 1(e) such remuneration and allowances as the Speaker may determine.	The Speaker may require the IPSA to pay to members of the Committee such remuneration as the Speaker may determine.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 28(2)	"In carrying out its functions the IPSA must have regard to the principle that it should act in a way which is efficient, cost-effective and transparent."	The IPSA must act in a way which is efficient and transparent.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 28(2)	"In carrying out its functions the IPSA must have regard to the principle that members of the House of Commons should be supported in efficiently, cost-effectively and transparently carrying out their Parliamentary functions."	The IPSA must have regard to the principle that members of the House of Commons should be supported in efficiently carrying out their functions.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 28(3)	"When the scheme (or revision) is laid, the IPSA must publish in a way it considers appropriate— (a) the scheme (or revision), and (b) a statement of its reasons for adopting that scheme (or making that revision)."	"When the scheme is laid, the IPSA must publish— (a) the scheme, and (b) a statement of its reasons for adopting that scheme."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 28(3)	"When the scheme (or revision) is laid, the IPSA must publish in a way it considers appropriate—"	"When the scheme is laid, the IPSA must publish—"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 28(3)	"the scheme (or revision), and"	"the scheme, and"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 28(3)	a statement of its reasons for adopting that scheme (or making that revision).	a statement of its reasons for adopting that scheme.	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 28(4)	"The IPSA must publish such information as it considers appropriate in respect of— (a) each claim made under or by virtue of this section, and (b) each payment of an allowance by the IPSA under or by virtue of this section."	"The IPSA must publish such information as it considers appropriate in respect of— (a) each claim made this section, and (b) each payment by the IPSA under this section."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 28(4)	The IPSA must publish such information as it considers appropriate in respect of—	The IPSA must publish such information as it considers appropriate in respect of—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 28(4)	"each claim made under or by virtue of this section, and"	"each claim made this section, and"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 28(4)	each payment of an allowance by the IPSA under or by virtue of this section.	each payment by the IPSA under this section.	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 28(4)	The IPSA must publish the information at times it considers appropriate and in a way it considers appropriate.	The IPSA must publish the information in a way it considers appropriate.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	Members of the House of Commons are to receive a salary for the relevant period.	Members of the House of Commons are to receive a salary.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	The salaries are to be paid by the IPSA.	Salaries are to be paid by the IPSA.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	Salaries are to be paid on a monthly basis in arrears.	Salaries are to be paid monthly in arrears.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	The amounts of the salaries are to be determined by the IPSA (see section 4A).	Salaries are to be determined by the IPSA.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	"“Relevant period”, in relation to a person who is a member of the House of Commons, means the period beginning with the day after the day of the poll for the parliamentary election at which the member was elected and ending with— (a) if the person is a member immediately before Parliament is dissolved, the day of the poll for the parliamentary general election which follows the dissolution; (b) otherwise, the day on which the person ceases to be a member."	"“Relevant period” means the period beginning the day after the election at which the member was elected and ending with— (a) if the person is a member immediately before Parliament is dissolved, the day of the general election which follows the dissolution; (b) otherwise, the day the person ceases to be a member."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 29(1)	"“Relevant period”, in relation to a person who is a member of the House of Commons, means the period beginning with the day after the day of the poll for the parliamentary election at which the member was elected and ending with—"	“Relevant period” means the period beginning the day after the election at which the member was elected and ending with—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 29(1)	"if the person is a member immediately before Parliament is dissolved, the day of the poll for the parliamentary general election which follows the dissolution;"	"if the person is a member immediately before Parliament is dissolved, the day of the general election which follows the dissolution;"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 29(1)	"otherwise, the day on which the person ceases to be a member."	"otherwise, the day the person ceases to be a member."	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 29(1)	No payment of salary is to be made to a member before the member has made and subscribed the oath required by the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866 (or the corresponding affirmation).	No payment is to be made before the member has made the oath required by the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866.	No	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	The duty of the IPSA to pay a salary to a member is subject to anything done in relation to the member in the exercise of the disciplinary powers of the House of Commons.	The duty to pay a salary is subject to anything done to the member in the exercise of disciplinary powers.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	A determination may provide for higher salaries to be payable to members while holding an office or position specified for the purposes of this subsection in a resolution of the House of Commons.	A determination may provide for higher salaries to be payable to members holding an office specified in a resolution of the House.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	A determination by virtue of subsection (2) may make different provision for different offices or positions or different classes of member (and may include exceptions).	A determination may make different provision for different offices or different classes of member.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	A determination may include a formula or other mechanism for adjusting salaries from time to time.	A determination may include a formula for adjusting salaries from time to time.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	A determination (other than the first determination) may have retrospective effect.	A determination may have retrospective effect.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 29(1)	The IPSA must review the current determination (and make a new determination as appropriate)— (a) in the first year of each Parliament; (b) at any other time it considers appropriate.	The IPSA must review the current determination— (a) in the first year of each Parliament; (b) at any other time it considers appropriate.	No	No	Yes
CRGA 29(1)	The IPSA must review the current determination (and make a new determination as appropriate)—	The IPSA must review the current determination—	No	yes	No
CRGA 29(1)	in the first year of each Parliament;	in the first year of each Parliament;	No	yes	No
CRGA 29(1)	at any other time it considers appropriate.	at any other time it considers appropriate.	No	yes	No
CRGA 30	Any duty of the IPSA to pay an allowance to a member is subject to anything done in relation to the member in the exercise of the disciplinary powers of the House of Commons.	Any duty to pay an allowance is subject to anything done to the member in the exercise of disciplinary powers.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 31(4)	"This subsection applies to amounts which a member (under section 9(8) or otherwise) has agreed to repay, in respect of amounts paid to the member under the MPs' allowances scheme that should not have been allowed."	"This subsection applies to amounts which a member has agreed to repay, in respect of amounts paid that should not have been allowed."	Yes	No	No
CRGA 31(5)	"This section applies if— (a) the IPSA determines under section 6(3) that a claim is to be refused or that only part of the amount claimed is to be allowed, and (b) the member (after asking the IPSA to reconsider the determination and giving it a reasonable opportunity to do so) asks the Compliance Officer to review the determination (or any altered determination resulting from the IPSA's reconsideration)."	"This section applies if— (a) the IPSA determines that a claim is to be refused, and (b) the member (after asking the IPSA to reconsider the determination) asks the Compliance Officer to review the determination."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 31(5)	This section applies if—	This section applies if—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"the IPSA determines under section 6(3) that a claim is to be refused or that only part of the amount claimed is to be allowed, and"	"the IPSA determines that a claim is to be refused, and"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	the member (after asking the IPSA to reconsider the determination and giving it a reasonable opportunity to do so) asks the Compliance Officer to review the determination (or any altered determination resulting from the IPSA's reconsideration).	the member (after asking the IPSA to reconsider the determination) asks the Compliance Officer to review the determination.	No	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"The Compliance Officer must— (a) consider whether the determination (or the altered determination) is the determination that should have been made, and (b) in light of that consideration, decide whether or not to confirm or alter it."	"The Compliance Officer must— (a) consider whether the determination should have been made, and (b) decide whether to confirm or alter it."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 31(5)	The Compliance Officer must—	The Compliance Officer must—	No	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"consider whether the determination (or the altered determination) is the determination that should have been made, and"	"consider whether the determination should have been made, and"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"in light of that consideration, decide whether or not to confirm or alter it."	decide whether to confirm or alter it.	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"The Compliance Officer must give the IPSA a statement of any decision under subsection (2)(b), and may include a statement of the Compliance Officer's findings about the way in which the IPSA has dealt with the claim."	"The Compliance Officer must give a statement of any decision, and may include a statement of the Compliance Officer's findings."	Yes	No	No
CRGA 31(5)	"The IPSA must make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to the Compliance Officer's decision; but it must not do so until— (a) it is no longer possible for there to be a relevant appeal, and (b) all relevant appeals have been withdrawn or determined."	"The IPSA must make any payments to give effect to the decision; but it must not do so until— (a) it is no longer possible for there to be a appeal, and (b) all appeals have been determined."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 31(5)	The IPSA must make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to the Compliance Officer's decision; but it must not do so until—	The IPSA must make any payments to give effect to the decision; but it must not do so until—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"it is no longer possible for there to be a relevant appeal, and"	"it is no longer possible for there to be a appeal, and"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	all relevant appeals have been withdrawn or determined.	all appeals have been determined.	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"A relevant appeal is— (a) an appeal under subsection (6) brought before the end of the period mentioned in subsection (7), or (b) a further appeal in relation to the Compliance Officer's decision which— (i) is brought before the end of the usual period for bringing such an appeal, and (ii) is an appeal against the determination of an appeal which was itself a relevant appeal."	"A relevant appeal is— (a) an appeal under subsection (6), or (b) a further appeal in relation to the decision which— (i) is brought before the end of the usual period, and (ii) is an appeal against the determination of an appeal."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 31(5)	A relevant appeal is—	A relevant appeal is—	No	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"an appeal under subsection (6) brought before the end of the period mentioned in subsection (7), or"	"an appeal under subsection (6), or"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	a further appeal in relation to the Compliance Officer's decision which—	a further appeal in relation to the decision which—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	"is brought before the end of the usual period for bringing such an appeal, and"	"is brought before the end of the usual period, and"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	is an appeal against the determination of an appeal which was itself a relevant appeal.	is an appeal against the determination of an appeal.	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	The member may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against a decision of the Compliance Officer under subsection (2)(b).	The member may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against a decision of the Compliance Officer.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 31(5)	The appeal must be brought before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which notice of the decision is sent to the member (unless the Tribunal directs that it may be brought after the end of that period).	The appeal must be brought before 28 days beginning with the day the decision is sent to the member.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 31(5)	If the Tribunal allows the appeal (in whole or in part) it may— (a) order the IPSA to make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to that decision; (b) make any other order it thinks fit.	If the Tribunal allows the appeal it may— (a) order the IPSA to make any payments to give effect to that decision; (b) make any other order.	No	No	Yes
CRGA 31(5)	If the Tribunal allows the appeal (in whole or in part) it may—	If the Tribunal allows the appeal it may—	No	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	order the IPSA to make any payments or adjustments necessary to give effect to that decision	order the IPSA to make any payments to give effect to that decision	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	make any other order it thinks fit.	make any other order.	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(5)	The Compliance Officer must notify the IPSA of the Tribunal's decision (and the result of any further appeal).	The Compliance Officer must notify the IPSA of the decision.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 31(6)	The IPSA must— (a) prepare guidance for members of the House of Commons about making claims under the MPs' allowances scheme; (b) review the guidance regularly and revise it as appropriate; (c) publish the guidance in a way the IPSA considers appropriate; (d) provide to any member on request such further advice about making claims as the IPSA considers appropriate.	The IPSA must— (a) prepare guidance about making claims under the MPs' allowances scheme; (b) review the guidance regularly; (c) publish the guidance; (d) provide any further advice about making claims as the IPSA considers appropriate.	No	No	Yes
CRGA 31(6)	The IPSA must—	The IPSA must—	No	yes	No
CRGA 31(6)	prepare guidance for members of the House of Commons about making claims under the MPs' allowances scheme;	prepare guidance about making claims under the MPs' allowances scheme;	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(6)	review the guidance regularly and revise it as appropriate;	review the guidance regularly;	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(6)	publish the guidance in a way the IPSA considers appropriate;	publish the guidance;	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 31(6)	provide to any member on request such further advice about making claims as the IPSA considers appropriate.	provide any further advice about making claims as the IPSA considers appropriate.	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(1)	"Subsection (2) applies if a person is for any part of a tax year— (a) a member of the House of Commons, or (b) a member of the House of Lords."	"Subsection (2) applies if a person is— (a) a member of the House of Commons, or (b) a member of the House of Lords."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 41(1)	Subsection (2) applies if a person is for any part of a tax year—	Subsection (2) applies if a person is—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(1)	"a member of the House of Commons, or"	"a member of the House of Commons, or"	No	yes	No
CRGA 41(1)	a member of the House of Lords.	a member of the House of Lords.	No	yes	No
CRGA 41(4)	"For the purposes of this section a person— (a) becomes a member of the House of Commons when (having been elected to that House) the person makes and subscribes the oath required by the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866 (or the corresponding affirmation), and (b) ceases to be a member of that House when— (i) the Parliament to which the person was elected is dissolved, or (ii) the person's seat is otherwise vacated."	"A person— (a) becomes a member of the House of Commons when (having been elected) the person makes the oath required by the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866, and (b) ceases to be a member when— (i) Parliament is dissolved, or (ii) the person's seat is otherwise vacated."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 41(4)	For the purposes of this section a person—	A person—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(4)	"becomes a member of the House of Commons when (having been elected to that House) the person makes and subscribes the oath required by the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866 (or the corresponding affirmation), and"	"becomes a member of the House of Commons when (having been elected) the person makes the oath required by the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866, and"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(4)	ceases to be a member of that House when—	ceases to be a member when—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(4)	"the Parliament to which the person was elected is dissolved, or"	"Parliament is dissolved, or"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(4)	the person's seat is otherwise vacated.	the person's seat is otherwise vacated.	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(5)	For the purposes of this section and section 42 a person is a member of the House of Lords if the person is entitled to receive writs of summons to attend that House.	A person is a member of the House of Lords if the person is entitled to receive writs of summons to attend that House.	Yes	No	No
CRGA 41(6)	"In relation to a member of the House of Lords, in subsection (1) the reference to any part of a tax year excludes any part of the year during which— (a) section 137(3) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 applies to the member, or (b) the member is entitled to receive writs of summons to attend the House of Lords by virtue of being an archbishop or bishop."	"In relation to a member of the House of Lords, tax year excludes any part of the year during which— (a) section 137(3) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 applies, or (b) the member is an archbishop or bishop."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 41(8)	"But in applying this section to the tax year 2010-11— (a) if the Parliament in which this Act is passed is dissolved in that tax year, ignore a person's membership of the House of Commons in that Parliament, and (b) in any event, ignore a person's membership of the House of Lords at any time before the end of the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which section 42 comes into force."	"But in applying this section to the tax year 2010-11— (a) if the Parliament is dissolved in that tax year, ignore a person's membership of the House of Commons, and (b) ignore a person's membership of the House of Lords before the end of 3 months beginning the day section 42 comes into force."	No	No	Yes
CRGA 41(8)	But in applying this section to the tax year 2010-11—	But in applying this section to the tax year 2010-11—	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(8)	"if the Parliament in which this Act is passed is dissolved in that tax year, ignore a person's membership of the House of Commons in that Parliament, and"	"if the Parliament is dissolved in that tax year, ignore a person's membership of the House of Commons, and"	Yes	yes	No
CRGA 41(8)	"in any event, ignore a person's membership of the House of Lords at any time before the end of the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which section 42 comes into force."	ignore a person's membership of the House of Lords before the end of 3 months beginning the day section 42 comes into force.	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 2(1)	"EU-derived domestic legislation, as it has effect in domestic law immediately before exit day, continues to have effect in domestic law on and after exit day."	EU-derived domestic legislation continues to have effect after exit day.	Yes	No	No
EUWA 2(2)	"In this section “EU-derived domestic legislation” means any enactment so far as— (a) made under section 2(2) of, or paragraph 1A of Schedule 2 to, the European Communities Act 1972, (b) passed or made, or operating, for a purpose mentioned in section 2(2)(a) or (b) of that Act, (c) relating to anything— (i) which falls within paragraph (a) or (b), or (ii) to which section 3(1) or 4(1) applies, or (d) relating otherwise to the EU or the EEA, but does not include any enactment contained in the European Communities Act 1972."	"“EU-derived domestic legislation” means any enactment— (a) made under section 2(2) of, or paragraph 1A of Schedule 2 to, the European Communities Act 1972, (b) operating for a purpose mentioned in section 2(2)(a) or (b) of that Act, (c) relating to anything— (i) which falls within paragraph (a) or (b), or (ii) to which section 3(1) or 4(1) applies, or (d) relating otherwise to the EU or the EEA, but does not include the European Communities Act 1972.
"	No	No	Yes
EUWA 2(2)	In this section “EU-derived domestic legislation” means any enactment so far as—	“EU-derived domestic legislation” means any enactment—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 2(2)	"passed or made, or operating, for a purpose mentioned in section 2(2)(a) or (b) of that Act,"	"operating for a purpose mentioned in section 2(2)(a) or (b) of that Act,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 2(2)	but does not include any enactment contained in the European Communities Act 1972.	but does not include the European Communities Act 1972.	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(1)	"Direct EU legislation, so far as operative immediately before exit day, forms part of domestic law on and after exit day."	"Direct EU legislation, so far as operative before exit day, forms part of domestic law after exit day."	Yes	No	No
EUWA 3(2)	"In this Act “direct EU legislation” means— (a) any EU regulation, EU decision or EU tertiary legislation, as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day and so far as— (i) it is not an exempt EU instrument (for which see section 20(1) and Schedule 6), (ii) it is not an EU decision addressed only to a member State other than the United Kingdom, and (iii) its effect is not reproduced in an enactment to which section 2(1) applies, (b) any Annex to the EEA agreement, as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day and so far as— (i) it refers to, or contains adaptations of, anything falling within paragraph (a), and (ii) its effect is not reproduced in an enactment to which section 2(1) applies, or (c) Protocol 1 to the EEA agreement (which contains horizontal adaptations that apply in relation to EU instruments referred to in the Annexes to that agreement), as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day."	"“direct EU legislation” means— (a) any EU legislation, as it has effect in EU law before exit day and so far as— (i) it is not exempt, (ii) it is not an EU decision addressed only to a member State other than the United Kingdom, and (iii) its effect is not reproduced, (b) any Annex to the EEA agreement, as it has effect in EU law before exit day and so far as— (i) it refers to anything falling within paragraph (a), and (ii) its effect is not reproduced, or (c) Protocol 1 to the EEA agreement, as it has effect in EU law before exit day."	No	No	Yes
EUWA 3(2)	In this Act “direct EU legislation” means—	“direct EU legislation” means—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(2)	"any EU regulation, EU decision or EU tertiary legislation, as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day and so far as—"	"any EU legislation, as it has effect in EU law before exit day and so far as—"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(2)	it is not an exempt EU instrument (for which see section 20(1) and Schedule 6)	"it is not exempt,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(2)	"it is not an EU decision addressed only to a member State other than the United Kingdom, and"	"it is not an EU decision addressed only to a member State other than the United Kingdom, and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(2)	"its effect is not reproduced in an enactment to which section 2(1) applies,"	"its effect is not reproduced,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(2)	"any Annex to the EEA agreement, as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day and so far as—"	"any Annex to the EEA agreement, as it has effect in EU law before exit day and so far as—"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(2)	"it refers to, or contains adaptations of, anything falling within paragraph (a), and"	"it refers to anything falling within paragraph (a), and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(2)	"its effect is not reproduced in an enactment to which section 2(1) applies, or"	"its effect is not reproduced, or"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(2)	"Protocol 1 to the EEA agreement (which contains horizontal adaptations that apply in relation to EU instruments referred to in the Annexes to that agreement), as it has effect in EU law immediately before exit day."	"Protocol 1 to the EEA agreement, as it has effect in EU law before exit day."	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(3)	"For the purposes of this Act, any direct EU legislation is operative immediately before exit day if— (a) in the case of anything which comes into force at a particular time and is stated to apply from a later time, it is in force and applies immediately before exit day, (b) in the case of a decision which specifies to whom it is addressed, it has been notified to that person before exit day, and (c) in any other case, it is in force immediately before exit day."	"Any direct EU legislation is operative before exit day if— (a) in the case of anything which comes into force and is stated to apply from a later time, it is in force and applies before exit day, (b) in the case of a decision, it has been notified to that person before exit day, and (c) in any other case, it is in force before exit day."	No	No	Yes
EUWA 3(3)	"For the purposes of this Act, any direct EU legislation is operative immediately before exit day if—"	Any direct EU legislation is operative before exit day if—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(3)	"in the case of anything which comes into force at a particular time and is stated to apply from a later time, it is in force and applies immediately before exit day,"	"in the case of anything which comes into force and is stated to apply from a later time, it is in force and applies before exit day,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(3)	"in the case of a decision which specifies to whom it is addressed, it has been notified to that person before exit day, and"	"in the case of a decision, it has been notified to that person before exit day, and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(3)	"in any other case, it is in force immediately before exit day."	"in any other case, it is in force before exit day."	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(4)	"This section— (a) brings into domestic law any direct EU legislation only in the form of the English language version of that legislation, and (b) does not apply to any such legislation for which there is no such version, but paragraph (a) does not affect the use of the other language versions of that legislation for the purposes of interpreting it."	"This section— (a) brings into domestic law any direct EU legislation in the English language version of that legislation, and (b) does not apply to legislation for which there is no such version, but paragraph (a) does not affect the use of the other language versions of that legislation for interpreting it."	No	No	Yes
EUWA 3(4)	This section—	This section—	No	yes	No
EUWA 3(4)	"brings into domestic law any direct EU legislation only in the form of the English language version of that legislation, and"	"brings into domestic law any direct EU legislation in the English language version of that legislation, and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(4)	"does not apply to any such legislation for which there is no such version,"	"does not apply to legislation for which there is no such version,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 3(4)	but paragraph (a) does not affect the use of the other language versions of that legislation for the purposes of interpreting it.	but paragraph (a) does not affect the use of the other language versions of that legislation for interpreting it.	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 4(1)	"Any rights, powers, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, remedies and procedures which, immediately before exit day— (a) are recognised and available in domestic law by virtue of section 2(1) of the European Communities Act 1972, and (b) are enforced, allowed and followed accordingly, continue on and after exit day to be recognised and available in domestic law (and to be enforced, allowed and followed accordingly).
"	"Any rights, obligations and procedures which, before exit day— (a) are recognised in domestic law by virtue of section 2(1) of the European Communities Act 1972, and (b) are enforced and followed accordingly, continue after exit day to be recognised in domestic law.
"	No	No	Yes
EUWA 4(1)	"Any rights, powers, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, remedies and procedures which, immediately before exit day—"	"Any rights, obligations and procedures which, before exit day—"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 4(1)	"are recognised and available in domestic law by virtue of section 2(1) of the European Communities Act 1972, and"	"are recognised in domestic law by virtue of section 2(1) of the European Communities Act 1972, and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 4(1)	"are enforced, allowed and followed accordingly,"	"are enforced and followed accordingly,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 4(1)	"continue on and after exit day to be recognised and available in domestic law (and to be enforced, allowed and followed accordingly)."	continue after exit day to be recognised in domestic law.	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 4(2)	"Subsection (1) does not apply to any rights, powers, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, remedies or procedures so far as they— (a) form part of domestic law by virtue of section 3, or (b) arise under an EU directive (including as applied by the EEA agreement) and are not of a kind recognised by the European Court or any court or tribunal in the United Kingdom in a case decided before exit day (whether or not as an essential part of the decision in the case)."	"Subsection (1) does not apply to any rights, obligations or procedures so far as they— (a) form part of domestic law by virtue of section 3, or (b) arise under an EU directive and are not recognised by the European Court or any court in the United Kingdom in a case decided before exit day."	No	No	Yes
EUWA 4(2)	"Subsection (1) does not apply to any rights, powers, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, remedies or procedures so far as they—"	"Subsection (1) does not apply to any rights, obligations or procedures so far as they—"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 4(2)	"form part of domestic law by virtue of section 3, or"	"form part of domestic law by virtue of section 3, or"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 4(2)	arise under an EU directive (including as applied by the EEA agreement) and are not of a kind recognised by the European Court or any court or tribunal in the United Kingdom in a case decided before exit day (whether or not as an essential part of the decision in the case).	arise under an EU directive and are not recognised by the European Court or any court in the United Kingdom in a case decided before exit day.	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 5(1)	The principle of the supremacy of EU law does not apply to any enactment or rule of law passed or made on or after exit day.	The principle of the supremacy of EU law does not apply to any enactment passed after exit day.	Yes	No	No
EUWA 5(2)	"Accordingly, the principle of the supremacy of EU law continues to apply on or after exit day so far as relevant to the interpretation, disapplication or quashing of any enactment or rule of law passed or made before exit day."	The principle of the supremacy of EU law continues to apply after exit day to the interpretation of any enactment passed before exit day.	Yes	No	No
EUWA 5(3)	Subsection (1) does not prevent the principle of the supremacy of EU law from applying to a modification made on or after exit day of any enactment or rule of law passed or made before exit day if the application of the principle is consistent with the intention of the modification.	Subsection (1) does not prevent the principle of the supremacy of EU law from applying to a modification made after exit day of any enactment if the principle is consistent with the intention of the modification.	Yes	No	No
EUWA 5(4)	The Charter of Fundamental Rights is not part of domestic law on or after exit day.	The Charter of Fundamental Rights is not part of domestic law after exit day.	Yes	No	No
EUWA 5(5)	"Subsection (4) does not affect the retention in domestic law on or after exit day in accordance with this Act of any fundamental rights or principles which exist irrespective of the Charter (and references to the Charter in any case law are, so far as necessary for this purpose, to be read as if they were references to any corresponding retained fundamental rights or principles)."	Subsection (4) does not affect the retention in domestic law after exit day of any fundamental rights which exist irrespective of the Charter.	No	No	No
EUWA 6(1)	"A court or tribunal— (a) is not bound by any principles laid down, or any decisions made, on or after exit day by the European Court, and (b) cannot refer any matter to the European Court on or after exit day."	"A court— (a) is not bound by any principles laid down after exit day by the European Court, and (b) cannot refer any matter to the European Court after exit day."	No	No	Yes
EUWA 6(1)	A court or tribunal—	A court—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 6(1)	"is not bound by any principles laid down, or any decisions made, on or after exit day by the European Court, and"	"is not bound by any principles laid down after exit day by the European Court, and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 6(1)	cannot refer any matter to the European Court on or after exit day.	cannot refer any matter to the European Court after exit day.	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 6(2)	"Subject to this and subsections (3) to (6), a court or tribunal may have regard to anything done on or after exit day by the European Court, another EU entity or the EU so far as it is relevant to any matter before the court or tribunal."	"Subject to this and subsections (3) to (6), a court may have regard to anything done after exit day by the European Court or the EU so far as it is relevant."	Yes	No	No
EUWA 6(3)	"Any question as to the validity, meaning or effect of any retained EU law is to be decided, so far as that law is unmodified on or after exit day and so far as they are relevant to it— (a) in accordance with any retained case law and any retained general principles of EU law, and (b) having regard (among other things) to the limits, immediately before exit day, of EU competences."	"Any question as to the effect of any retained EU law is to be decided— (a) in accordance with any retained case law, and (b) having regard to the limits, before exit day, of EU competences."	No	No	Yes
EUWA 6(3)	"Any question as to the validity, meaning or effect of any retained EU law is to be decided, so far as that law is unmodified on or after exit day and so far as they are relevant to it—"	Any question as to the effect of any retained EU law is to be decided—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 6(3)	"in accordance with any retained case law and any retained general principles of EU law, and"	"in accordance with any retained case law, and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 6(3)	"having regard (among other things) to the limits, immediately before exit day, of EU competences."	"having regard to the limits, before exit day, of EU competences."	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 6(4)	"But— (a) the Supreme Court is not bound by any retained EU case law, (b) the High Court of Justiciary is not bound by any retained EU case law when— (i) sitting as a court of appeal otherwise than in relation to a compatibility issue (within the meaning given by section 288ZA(2) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995) or a devolution issue (within the meaning given by paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to the Scotland Act 1998), or (ii) sitting on a reference under section 123(1) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, and (c) no court or tribunal is bound by any retained domestic case law that it would not otherwise be bound by."	"But— (a) the Supreme Court is not bound by any retained EU case law, (b) the High Court of Justiciary is not bound by any retained EU case law when— (i) sitting as a court of appeal otherwise than in relation to a compatibility or a devolution issue, or (ii) sitting on a reference under section 123(1) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, and (c) no court is bound by any retained domestic case law that it would not otherwise be bound by."	No	No	Yes
EUWA 6(4)	"sitting as a court of appeal otherwise than in relation to a compatibility issue (within the meaning given by section 288ZA(2) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995) or a devolution issue (within the meaning given by paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to the Scotland Act 1998), or"	"sitting as a court of appeal otherwise than in relation to a compatibility or a devolution issue, or"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 6(4)	no court or tribunal is bound by any retained domestic case law that it would not otherwise be bound by.	no court is bound by any retained domestic case law that it would not otherwise be bound by.	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 6(5)	"In deciding whether to depart from any retained EU case law, the Supreme Court or the High Court of Justiciary must apply the same test as it would apply in deciding whether to depart from its own case law."	"In deciding whether to depart from any retained EU case law, the Court must apply the same test as it would in deciding whether to depart from its own case law."	Yes	No	No
EUWA 6(6)	"Subsection (3) does not prevent the validity, meaning or effect of any retained EU law which has been modified on or after exit day from being decided as provided for in that subsection if doing so is consistent with the intention of the modifications."	Subsection (3) does not prevent the effect of any retained EU law which has been modified after exit day from being decided if doing so is consistent with the intention of the modifications.	Yes	No	No
EUWA 8(1)	"A Minister of the Crown may by regulations make such provision as the Minister considers appropriate to prevent, remedy or mitigate— (a) any failure of retained EU law to operate effectively, or (b) any other deficiency in retained EU law, arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU.
"	"A Minister make provision to mitigate— (a) any failure of retained EU law to operate effectively, or (b) any other deficiency, arising from withdrawal.
"	No	No	Yes
EUWA 8(1)	"A Minister of the Crown may by regulations make such provision as the Minister considers appropriate to prevent, remedy or mitigate—"	A Minister make provision to mitigate—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(1)	"any failure of retained EU law to operate effectively, or"	"any failure of retained EU law to operate effectively, or"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(1)	"any other deficiency in retained EU law, arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU."	"any other deficiency, arising from withdrawal."	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"Deficiencies in retained EU law are where the Minister considers that retained EU law— (a) contains anything which has no practical application in relation to the United Kingdom or any part of it or is otherwise redundant or substantially redundant, (b) confers functions on, or in relation to, EU entities which no longer have functions in that respect under EU law in relation to the United Kingdom or any part of it, (c) makes provision for, or in connection with, reciprocal arrangements between— (i) the United Kingdom or any part of it or a public authority in the United Kingdom, and (ii) the EU, an EU entity, a member State or a public authority in a member State, which no longer exist or are no longer appropriate, (d) makes provision for, or in connection with, other arrangements which— (i) involve the EU, an EU entity, a member State or a public authority in a member State, or (ii) are otherwise dependent upon the United Kingdom's membership of the EU, and which no longer exist or are no longer appropriate, (e) makes provision for, or in connection with, any reciprocal or other arrangements not falling within paragraph (c) or (d) which no longer exist, or are no longer appropriate, as a result of the United Kingdom ceasing to be a party to any of the EU Treaties, (f) does not contain any functions or restrictions which— (i) were in an EU directive and in force immediately before exit day (including any power to make EU tertiary legislation), and (ii) it is appropriate to retain, or (g) contains EU references which are no longer appropriate."	"Deficiencies are where retained EU law— (a) contains anything which has no practical application in relation to the United Kingdom, (b) confers functions on EU entities which no longer have functions in relation to the United Kingdom, (c) makes reciprocal arrangements between— (i) the United Kingdom, and (ii) the EU or a public authority in a member State, which are no longer appropriate, (d) makes other arrangements which— (i) involve the EU or a public authority in a member State, or (ii) are otherwise dependent upon the United Kingdom's membership of the EU, and which are no longer appropriate, (e) makes arrangements not falling within paragraph (c) or (d) which are no longer appropriate, as a result of the United Kingdom ceasing to be a party to any of the EU Treaties, (f) does not contain any functions which— (i) were in an EU directive and in force before exit day, and (ii) it is appropriate to retain, or (g) contains EU references which are no longer appropriate."	No	No	Yes
EUWA 8(2)	Deficiencies in retained EU law are where the Minister considers that retained EU law—	Deficiencies are where retained EU law—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"contains anything which has no practical application in relation to the United Kingdom or any part of it or is otherwise redundant or substantially redundant,"	"contains anything which has no practical application in relation to the United Kingdom,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"confers functions on, or in relation to, EU entities which no longer have functions in that respect under EU law in relation to the United Kingdom or any part of it,"	"confers functions on EU entities which no longer have functions in relation to the United Kingdom,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"makes provision for, or in connection with, reciprocal arrangements between—"	makes reciprocal arrangements between—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"the United Kingdom or any part of it or a public authority in the United Kingdom, and"	"the United Kingdom, and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"the EU, an EU entity, a member State or a public authority in a member State, which no longer exist or are no longer appropriate,"	"the EU or a public authority in a member State, which are no longer appropriate,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"makes provision for, or in connection with, other arrangements which—"	makes other arrangements which—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"involve the EU, an EU entity, a member State or a public authority in a member State, or"	"involve the EU or a public authority in a member State, or"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"are otherwise dependent upon the United Kingdom's membership of the EU, and which no longer exist or are no longer appropriate,"	"are otherwise dependent upon the United Kingdom's membership of the EU, and which are no longer appropriate,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"makes provision for, or in connection with, any reciprocal or other arrangements not falling within paragraph (c) or (d) which no longer exist, or are no longer appropriate, as a result of the United Kingdom ceasing to be a party to any of the EU Treaties,"	"makes arrangements not falling within paragraph (c) or (d) which are no longer appropriate, as a result of the United Kingdom ceasing to be a party to any of the EU Treaties,"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	does not contain any functions or restrictions which—	does not contain any functions which—	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"were in an EU directive and in force immediately before exit day (including any power to make EU tertiary legislation), and"	"were in an EU directive and in force before exit day, and"	Yes	yes	No
EUWA 8(2)	"it is appropriate to retain, or (g) contains EU references which are no longer appropriate."	"it is appropriate to retain, or (g) contains EU references which are no longer appropriate."	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 1(2)	The polling day for the next parliamentary general election after the passing of this Act is to be 7 May 2015.	The polling day for the next general election is to be 7 May 2015.	Yes	No	No
FTPA 1(3)	The polling day for each subsequent parliamentary general election is to be the first Thursday in May in the fifth calendar year following that in which the polling day for the previous parliamentary general election fell.	The day for each subsequent general election is the first Thursday in May in the fifth year following the previous general election.	Yes	No	No
FTPA 1(4)	"But, if the polling day for the previous parliamentary general election— (a) was appointed under section 2(7), and (b) in the calendar year in which it fell, fell before the first Thursday in May, subsection (3) has effect as if for “fifth” there were substituted “fourth”.
"	"But, if the day for the previous general election— (a) was appointed under section 2(7), and (b) fell before the first Thursday in May, subsection (3) has effect as if for “fifth” there were substituted “fourth”.
"	No	No	Yes
FTPA 1(4)	"But, if the polling day for the previous parliamentary general election—"	"But, if the day for the previous general election—"	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 1(4)	"was appointed under section 2(7), and"	"was appointed under section 2(7), and"	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 1(4)	"in the calendar year in which it fell, fell before the first Thursday in May,"	"fell before the first Thursday in May,"	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 1(4)	subsection (3) has effect as if for “fifth” there were substituted “fourth”.	subsection (3) has effect as if for “fifth” there were substituted “fourth”.	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 1(5)	"The Prime Minister may by order made by statutory instrument provide that the polling day for a parliamentary general election in a specified calendar year is to be later than the day determined under subsection (2) or (3), but not more than two months later."	"The Prime Minister may by order provide that the day for a general election is to be later than the day under subsection (2) or (3), but not more than two months later."	Yes	No	No
FTPA 1(6)	A statutory instrument containing an order under subsection (5) may not be made unless a draft has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.	An order under subsection (5) may not be made unless a draft has been approved by each House of Parliament.	Yes	No	No
FTPA 1(7)	The draft laid before Parliament must be accompanied by a statement setting out the Prime Minister’s reasons for proposing the change in the polling day.	The draft must be accompanied by a statement setting out the Prime Minister’s reasons for proposing the change in day.	Yes	No	No
FTPA 2(1)	"An early parliamentary general election is to take place if— (a) the House of Commons passes a motion in the form set out in subsection (2), and (b) if the motion is passed on a division, the number of members who vote in favour of the motion is a number equal to or greater than two thirds of the number of seats in the House (including vacant seats)."	"An early general election is to take place if— (a) the House of Commons passes a motion, and (b) the number of members who vote in favour of the motion is equal or greater than two thirds of the number of seats in the House."	No	No	Yes
FTPA 2(1)	An early parliamentary general election is to take place if—	An early general election is to take place if—	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 2(1)	"the House of Commons passes a motion in the form set out in subsection (2), and"	"the House of Commons passes a motion, and"	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 2(1)	"if the motion is passed on a division, the number of members who vote in favour of the motion is a number equal to or greater than two thirds of the number of seats in the House (including vacant seats)."	the number of members who vote in favour of the motion is equal or greater than two thirds of the number of seats in the House.	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 2(2)	The form of motion for the purposes of subsection (1)(a) is—	The form of motion is—	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 2(3)	"An early parliamentary general election is also to take place if— (a) the House of Commons passes a motion in the form set out in subsection (4), and (b) the period of 14 days after the day on which that motion is passed ends without the House passing a motion in the form set out in subsection (5)."	"An early general election is also to take place if— (a) the House of Commons passes a motion, and (b) the period of 14 days after the motion is passed ends without the House passing a motion in the form set out in subsection (5)."	No	No	Yes
FTPA 2(3)	An early parliamentary general election is also to take place if—	An early general election is also to take place if—	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 2(3)	"the House of Commons passes a motion in the form set out in subsection (4), and"	"the House of Commons passes a motion, and"	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 2(3)	the period of 14 days after the day on which that motion is passed ends without the House passing a motion in the form set out in subsection (5).	the period of 14 days after the motion is passed ends without the House passing a motion in the form set out in subsection (5).	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 2(7)	"If a parliamentary general election is to take place as provided for by subsection (1) or (3), the polling day for the election is to be the day appointed by Her Majesty by proclamation on the recommendation of the Prime Minister (and, accordingly, the appointed day replaces the day which would otherwise have been the polling day for the next election determined under section 1)."	"If a general election is to take place as provided for by subsection (1) or (3), the polling day is  the day appointed by Her Majesty on the recommendation of the Prime Minister."	Yes	No	No
FTPA 3(1)	The Parliament then in existence dissolves at the beginning of the 17th working day before the polling day for the next parliamentary general election as determined under section 1 or appointed under section 2(7).	Parliament dissolves at the beginning of the 17th working day before the next general election.	Yes	No	No
FTPA 3(3)	"Once Parliament dissolves, the Lord Chancellor and, in relation to Northern Ireland, the Secretary of State have the authority to have the writs for the election sealed and issued (see rule 3 in Schedule 1 to the Representation of the People Act 1983)."	"Once Parliament dissolves, the Lord Chancellor and, in relation to Northern Ireland, the Secretary of State have the authority to have the writs for the election issued."	Yes	No	No
FTPA 3(4)	"Once Parliament dissolves, Her Majesty may issue the proclamation summoning the new Parliament which may— (a) appoint the day for the first meeting of the new Parliament; (b) deal with any other matter which was normally dealt with before the passing of this Act by proclamations summoning new Parliaments (except a matter dealt with by subsection (1) or (3))."	"Once Parliament dissolves, Her Majesty may— (a) appoint the day for the first meeting of the new Parliament; (b) deal with any other matter which was normally dealt with before the passing of this Act."	No	No	Yes
FTPA 3(4)	"Once Parliament dissolves, Her Majesty may issue the proclamation summoning the new Parliament which may—"	"Once Parliament dissolves, Her Majesty may—"	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 3(4)	appoint the day for the first meeting of the new Parliament;	appoint the day for the first meeting of the new Parliament;	Yes	yes	No
FTPA 3(4)	deal with any other matter which was normally dealt with before the passing of this Act by proclamations summoning new Parliaments (except a matter dealt with by subsection (1) or (3)).	deal with any other matter which was normally dealt with before the passing of this Act.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 1(2)	"discharging its general functions in relation to the matters mentioned in subsection (4A) in a way that seeks to— (i) ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is carried on in a way that avoids any adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services, (ii) ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is protected from risks (arising in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) that could adversely affect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services, and (iii) minimise the risk that the failure of a ring-fenced body or of a member of a ring-fenced body’s group could affect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services."	"discharging its general functions in a way that seeks to— (i) ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is carried on in a way that avoids any adverse effect the provision of core services, (ii) ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is protected from risks that could adversely affect the provision of core services, and (iii) minimise the risk that the failure of a ring-fenced body could affect the provision of core services."	No	No	Yes
FSBRA 1(2)	discharging its general functions in relation to the matters mentioned in subsection (4A) in a way that seeks to—	discharging its general functions in a way that seeks to—	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 1(2)	"ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is carried on in a way that avoids any adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services,"	"ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is carried on in a way that avoids any adverse effect the provision of core services,"	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 1(2)	"ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is protected from risks (arising in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) that could adversely affect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services, and"	"ensure that the business of ring-fenced bodies is protected from risks that could adversely affect the provision of core services, and"	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 1(2)	minimise the risk that the failure of a ring-fenced body or of a member of a ring-fenced body’s group could affect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services.	minimise the risk that the failure of a ring-fenced body could affect the provision of core services.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 1(4)	"The matters referred to in subsection (3)(c) are— (a) Part 9B (ring-fencing); (b) ring-fenced bodies (see section 142A); (c) any body corporate incorporated in the United Kingdom that has a ring-fenced body as a member of its group; (d) applications under Part 4A which, if granted, would result, or would be capable of resulting, in a person becoming a ring-fenced body."	The matters referred to in subsection (3)(c) are— (a) Part 9B; (b) ring-fenced bodies; (c) any corporate that has a ring-fenced body as a member of its group; (d) applications under Part 4A which would result in a person becoming a ring-fenced body.	No	No	Yes
FSBRA 1(4)	The matters referred to in subsection (3)(c) are—	The matters referred to in subsection (3)(c) are—	No	yes	No
FSBRA 1(4)	Part 9B (ring-fencing)	Part 9B	No	yes	No
FSBRA 1(4)	ring-fenced bodies (see section 142A)	ring-fenced bodies	No	yes	No
FSBRA 1(4)	any body corporate incorporated in the United Kingdom that has a ring-fenced body as a member of its group	any corporate that has a ring-fenced body as a member of its group	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 1(4)	"applications under Part 4A which, if granted, would result, or would be capable of resulting, in a person becoming a ring-fenced body."	applications under Part 4A which would result in a person becoming a ring-fenced body.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 1(5)	"For the purposes of this Chapter, the cases in which a person (“P”) other than an authorised person is to be regarded as failing include any case where P enters insolvency."	The cases in which a person (“P”) other than an authorised person is to be regarded as failing include any case where P enters insolvency.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 2	"In relation to the matters mentioned in subsection (2), the continuity objective is: protecting the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services (see section 142C)."	The continuity objective is: protecting the continuity of the provision of core services.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	In this Act “ring-fenced body” means a UK institution which carries on one or more core activities (see section 142B) in relation to which it has a Part 4A permission.	“ring-fenced body” means a UK institution which carries on one or more core activities.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"But “ring-fenced body” does not include— (a) a building society within the meaning of the Building Societies Act 1986, or (b) a UK institution of a class exempted by order made by the Treasury."	"But “ring-fenced body” does not include— (a) a building society, or (b) a UK institution exempted by the Treasury."	No	No	Yes
FSBRA 4(1)	But “ring-fenced body” does not include—	But “ring-fenced body” does not include—	No	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"a building society within the meaning of the Building Societies Act 1986, or"	"a building society, or"	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	a UK institution of a class exempted by order made by the Treasury.	a UK institution exempted by the Treasury.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	An order under subsection (2)(b) may be made in relation to a class of UK institution only if the Treasury are of the opinion that the exemption conferred by the order would not be likely to have a significant adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services.	An order under subsection (2)(b) may be made only if the exemption would not be likely to have a significant adverse effect on the provision of core services.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"Subject to that, in deciding whether and, if so, how to exercise their powers under subsection (2)(b), the Treasury must have regard to the desirability of minimising any adverse effect that the ring-fencing provisions might be expected to have on competition in the market for services provided in the course of carrying on core activities, including any adverse effect on the ease with which new entrants can enter the market."	"In deciding whether to exercise their powers under subsection (2)(b), the Treasury must have regard to minimising any adverse effect that the ring-fencing provisions might have on competition in the market."	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	The regulated activity of accepting deposits (whether carried on in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) is a core activity unless it is carried on in circumstances specified by the Treasury by order.	The regulated activity of accepting deposits is a core activity unless it is carried on in circumstances specified by the Treasury.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	An order under subsection (2) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion that it is not necessary for either of the following purposes that the regulated activity of accepting deposits should be a core activity when carried on in the specified circumstances.	An order under subsection (2) may be made only if it is not necessary for the following purposes that accepting deposits should be a core activity in the specified circumstances.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"Those purposes are— (a) to secure an appropriate degree of protection for the depositors concerned, or (b) to protect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of services provided in the course of carrying on the regulated activity of accepting deposits."	"Those purposes are— (a) to secure protection for the depositors, or (b) to protect the provision of services provided in the course of accepting deposits."	No	No	Yes
FSBRA 4(1)	Those purposes are—	Those purposes are—	No	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"to secure an appropriate degree of protection for the depositors concerned, or"	"to secure protection for the depositors, or"	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	to protect the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of services provided in the course of carrying on the regulated activity of accepting deposits.	to protect the provision of services provided in the course of accepting deposits.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"The Treasury may by order provide for a regulated activity other than that of accepting deposits to be a core activity, either generally or when carried on in circumstances specified in the order."	The Treasury may provide for a regulated activity other than accepting deposits to be a core activity.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"An order under subsection (5) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion— (a) that an interruption of the provision of services provided in the United Kingdom in the carrying on of the regulated activity concerned could adversely affect the stability of the UK financial system or of a significant part of that system, and (b) that the continuity of the provision of those services can more effectively be protected by treating the activity as a core activity."	"An order under subsection (5) may be made only if— (a) an interruption of the provision of  the regulated activity could adversely affect the stability of the UK financial system, and (b) the provision of those services can be protected by treating the activity as a core activity."	No	No	Yes
FSBRA 4(1)	An order under subsection (5) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion—	An order under subsection (5) may be made only if—	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"that an interruption of the provision of services provided in the United Kingdom in the carrying on of the regulated activity concerned could adversely affect the stability of the UK financial system or of a significant part of that system, and"	"an interruption of the provision of  the regulated activity could adversely affect the stability of the UK financial system, and"	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	that the continuity of the provision of those services can more effectively be protected by treating the activity as a core activity.	the provision of those services can be protected by treating the activity as a core activity.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	The following are core services— (a) facilities for the accepting of deposits or other payments into an account which is provided in the course of carrying on the core activity of accepting deposits; (b) facilities for withdrawing money or making payments from such an account; (c) overdraft facilities in connection with such an account.	The following are core services— (a) facilities for accepting deposits or other payments into an account which is provided in the course of accepting deposits; (b) facilities for withdrawing money or making payments; (c) overdraft facilities.	No	No	Yes
FSBRA 4(1)	The following are core services—	The following are core services—	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	facilities for the accepting of deposits or other payments into an account which is provided in the course of carrying on the core activity of accepting deposits;	facilities for accepting deposits or other payments into an account which is provided in the course of accepting deposits;	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	facilities for withdrawing money or making payments from such an account;	facilities for withdrawing money or making payments;	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	overdraft facilities in connection with such an account.	overdraft facilities.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	The Treasury may by order provide that any other specified services provided in the course of carrying on the core activity of accepting deposits are also core services.	The Treasury may provide that other services provided in the course of accepting deposits are also core services.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"If an order under section 142B(5) provides for an activity other than that of accepting deposits to be a core activity, the Treasury must by order provide that specified services provided in the course of carrying on that activity are core services."	"If an order under section 142B(5) provides for a core activity, the Treasury must provide that services provided in the course of that activity are core services."	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	The regulated activity of dealing in investments as principal (whether carried on in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) is an excluded activity unless it is carried on in circumstances specified by the Treasury by order.	Dealing in investments as principal is an excluded activity unless specified by the Treasury.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	An order under subsection (2) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion that allowing ring-fenced bodies to deal in investments as principal in the specified circumstances would not be likely to result in any significant adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services.	An order under subsection (2) may be made only if allowing ring-fenced bodies to deal in investments as principal in the circumstances would not result in any significant adverse effect on the provision of core services.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"The Treasury may by order provide for an activity other than the regulated activity of dealing in investments as principal to be an excluded activity, either generally or when carried on in circumstances specified in the order."	The Treasury may provide for an activity other than dealing in investments as principal to be an excluded activity.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (4) in relation to any activity, the Treasury must— (a) have regard to the risks to which a ring-fenced body would be exposed if it carried on the activity concerned, and (b) consider whether the carrying on of that activity by a ring-fenced body would make it more likely that the failure of the body would have an adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services."	"In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (4), the Treasury must— (a) have regard to the risks to a ring-fenced body if it carried on the activity, and (b) consider whether  that activity would make it more likely that the failure of the body would have an adverse effect on the provision of core services."	No	No	Yes
FSBRA 4(1)	"In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (4) in relation to any activity, the Treasury must—"	"In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (4), the Treasury must—"	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	"have regard to the risks to which a ring-fenced body would be exposed if it carried on the activity concerned, and"	"have regard to the risks to a ring-fenced body if it carried on the activity, and"	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	consider whether the carrying on of that activity by a ring-fenced body would make it more likely that the failure of the body would have an adverse effect on the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services.	consider whether  that activity would make it more likely that the failure of the body would have an adverse effect on the provision of core services.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	An order under subsection (4) may be made only if the Treasury are of the opinion that the making of the order is necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting the continuity of the provision in the United Kingdom of core services.	An order under subsection (4) may be made only if the making of the order is expedient for the purpose of protecting the provision of core services.	Yes	No	No
FSBRA 4(1)	The Treasury may by order prohibit ring-fenced bodies from— (a) entering into transactions of a specified kind or with persons falling within a specified class; (b) establishing or maintaining a branch in a specified country or territory; (c) holding in specified circumstances shares or voting power in companies of a specified description.	The Treasury prohibit ring-fenced bodies from— (a) entering into transactions of a specified kind; (b) maintaining a branch in a specified country; (c) holding shares or voting power in companies.	No	No	Yes
FSBRA 4(1)	The Treasury may by order prohibit ring-fenced bodies from—	The Treasury prohibit ring-fenced bodies from—	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	entering into transactions of a specified kind or with persons falling within a specified class;	entering into transactions of a specified kind;	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	establishing or maintaining a branch in a specified country or territory;	maintaining a branch in a specified country;	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 4(1)	holding in specified circumstances shares or voting power in companies of a specified description.	holding shares or voting power in companies.	Yes	yes	No
FSBRA 8(1)	"The Treasury must, before the end of the initial period, appoint a panel of at least 5 persons (“the review panel”) to carry out a review of the operation of the legislation relating to ring-fencing."	The Treasury must appoint a panel to carry out a review of the operation of the legislation relating to ring-fencing.	Yes	No	No
